SESSION ID: CRWD-W01
Combating Cyber Risk in the Supply Chain

Joshua C. Douglas
CTO Raytheon Cyber Products
@RaytheonCyber

#RSAC

Did You Know?
 76% of all data breaches result from a third-party which introduced the security deficiencies that were ultimately exploited1
 44% of banks surveyed do not require warranty of the integrity of third-party data or products
 One-third of them do not require notification by third-parties if breached2
 "Compromised trusted partners expected to be less prevalent in the next three years by IT security leaders3..." Really? Or is that a false sense of hope?
1 Trustwave 2012, Global Security Report 2 NYDFS ­ update on Cyber Security in the Banking Sector: Third Party Service Providers 3 Ponemon ­ Megatrends Cyber Security
2

#RSAC

#RSAC
What Do You Consider to be the Supply Chain?
3

#RSAC
Depends...Who is the consumer?
4

#RSAC
We All Are!
5

#RSAC
Modern Global Supply Chain Defined
 A complex, global third-party network of suppliers, distributors, business partners, services providers, and customers that share business processes, develop technology, as well as distribute products used in creating, sharing, and distributing information
6

#RSAC
Vulnerabilities Introduced in the Supply Chain
 Supply chain vulnerabilities produce inherent risk and can be used to gain unauthorized access to data, alter data, or interrupt communications in the enterprise or mission
 You're only as strong as your weakest link in the chain!
7

#RSAC
Deviation from the Norm ­ Malicious Behavior?
 Today we are all connected socially together in our personal life and / or work life
 Reduce your dwell time ­ no one is immune from compromise
 Do not expect security vendors to be the "end all be all" for your asset security
 Forward-thinking - focus on analytics, human behavior, and hardening of network systems, etc.
8

#RSAC
Cyber Security Regulations / Policies / Guidance
 Telecommunications Act 1996
 2007 CPNI Order
 DFARS
 Sub part 204.73
 Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative
 #11 Develop a multi-pronged approach for global supply chain risk management
 NIST 800-161 (Second Draft)  Other countries and adverse affects?  If we do not do something about it, regulators will
9

#RSAC
Balancing Act
 To protect our customers, we as providers, must protect our product, ourselves, and our global supply chain
 Do you help the supply chain or punish them over faults, breaches, etc.?
 Heavy hands often do not help anyone
 A balance between innovation and cyber security
10

#RSAC
Supply Chain Hardening
 Tiered Risk Management
 Engage the supplier  Secure the enterprise  Protect the customer
 People, processes and technology
11

#RSAC
ICT Supply Chain Risk...Effective?
12

#RSAC
Formula for Most Companies...
13

Engage the Supplier
 Create Contractual Obligations
 Require breach notification (do not make this a negative...) with a timeline and parameters
 Establish data handling requirements  Require product integrity  Ensure language mandates communication back to the supplier are
only for updates (not data collection)  Make your suppliers demand the same of their suppliers
 Evaluation of technology and capabilities
 Security Assessments  Source code and binary validation (quality, vulnerability, and FOSS)
 Information Sharing
 If you have threat information that can protect you both, share it
14

#RSAC

Secure the Enterprise
 Limit Vendor Access  Try to avoid direct access to your enterprise  Perform deep (content) application inspection on "trusted connections" ­ treat them like classified networks ­ inverse DLP  Do not directly share critical information - read only and encrypt
 Contain delivered goods and services  Zone software, products and services  Appliances should not have access to the internet unless for updates...
 Monitor installed products, endpoints and connections  Identity and human behavior monitoring are a must to combat today's threats
15

#RSAC

#RSAC
Protect the Customer
 Follow the previous two slides  Bake in security
 Best practices...passwords, secure coding, etc.  Anti-tamper technology
 Assess your products and services  Are you prepared to walk away from a
supplier with poor security?
16

#RSAC
Apply It...
 Next week, you should:
 Identify who handles all of the contracts for your company  Do they work with the IT Security/Cyber Operations teams?  Do they require your supply chain to provide software, hardware and services to be delivered with integrity?  Do they require to report to you when they have been breached?
 Determine if your Intellectual Property has direct access by any third-party  Identify what you are doing to secure your products for your customers
 In the first three months following this presentation, you should:
 You should be able to clearly articulate how many suppliers you have and what they provide (or at least refer to a list)  Define appropriate security assessment questionnaire for critical supplier  Create plans to isolate critical IP from other data and standard access (treat it as if it were SOX or PCI data)
 Within six months, you should:
 Have clearly defined security requirements for your suppliers  Select cyber security products that go beyond prevention and look at human-based behaviors and malware-based ones  Drive towards a risk-based security approach...understand that everyone gets breached...how do you reduce dwell time?
17

#RSAC
Supply Chain Partnership
 Partnership with your traditional supply chain (how you make goods/services)
 Work in partnership with security vendors to harden our security
 Advanced analytics and behavior modeling
18

#RSAC
Recap
 As consumers and suppliers, we have to understand our supply chain
 We need to be partners to combat the evolving threats
 Malware detection is not solving the problem, nor can it combat the problem when it is human-based
 Security methodologies have to shift from a foundation of prevention to risk-based security
19

#RSAC
If you are APT, please send care packages to:
joshua_c_douglas@raytheon.com @DouglasRTN
20

