SESSION ID: CXO-F03
Wargaming for the Boardroom: How to Have a Successful Tabletop Exercise

Serge Jorgensen
Chief Technology Officer The Sylint Group sdj@usinfosec.com

David Navetta
Partner, Co-Chair, Data Protection, Privacy & Access to Information, United States Norton Rose Fulbright LLP @davidnavetta

#RSAC

#RSAC
Mechanics of Wargaming for the Boardroom
 Three Separate Sessions  Each session at a different portion of scenario flow  Different sets of participants in each session  Key to keeping discussion focused and relevant to audience
 Specific Goals Attached to Each Session  Goals drive more detailed learning objectives  Facilitators ensure all learning objectives addressed
 Direction of Guided Discussion Organization Specific  Encourage free flow of potential organization course of action or options  Be prepared to provide additional scenario details, when asked (learning objective)  Intervene in discussions if learning objective achieved and productivity level starts to decrease
 Take detailed notes/recording for debrief/review purposes
2

#RSAC
Ready...Set...Go!
 FBI Special Agent calls organization's legal department to inform their General Counsel of a potential cyber security issue involving the organization.
 FBI requests a confidential meeting with CEO, and whomever else appropriate, that afternoon. FBI requests someone knowledgeable of the organization's sensitive data be available
 CEO begins Pepto-Bismol regimen & decides to invite CIO to initial meeting
3

#RSAC
WG Session 1: FBI Notification
 Scenario: At initial meeting, FBI informs the group of a potential data leak involving sensitive government, commercial client and internal documents. FBI believes the documents were exfiltrated from your organization. CIO confirms the documents in FBI possession are documents that were being held by and/or originated from the organization.
 Primary Training Audience: Senior Management, Legal department, and Public Relations team
4

#RSAC
Session 1: FBI Notifies Organization of Breach
 Goal Focus: Lines of Authority / Roles & Identification of external interaction
 Minimum Items/Questions that Target Audience Should Address
 Intelligence Collection  Investigative Cooperation or Guidance  Known/Suspected Identity & Goals of Attackers  Potential adversary course(s) of action (CoA)  Communication Methods
 Desired Learning Objectives
 Understand law enforcement role/interaction  Postulate threat intentions  Initiate IR with Senior Management initial direction
5

Session 2: IR Team Activated & Begins

#RSAC

Investigation

 Scenario: FBI meeting concludes and Senior Management informs IT Director to active IR Team. Team assembles and is given Senior Management initial direction and guidance. IR Team creates an initial plan of action and begins investigative process using FBI documents as an initial starting point

 Primary Audience: IR Team

6

Session 2: IR Team Activated & Begins

#RSAC

Investigation

Goal Focus Preparedness; Awareness of Gaps & Identification of external interaction

Minimum Items/Questions that Target Audience Should Address

Desired Learning Objectives

 Contact groups, numbers & methods
 Playbook development
 Business operations vs. remediation
 Data Repository location identifications (and maintenance)
 Protective measures currently in place & tracking of potential indications of compromise
 Role of any business associates in IR team

 Verify current IR Plan (modify as required)
 Understand concept of IR plan & playbook
 Address potential conflict with business operational vs IR actions
 Improve organization's knowledge and awareness of sensitive data
 Identify 3rd party business associate interaction and initiate coordination
 Address importance of evidence/forensic collection versus remediation pressure

7

#RSAC
Session 3: Review Organization's Response
 Scenario: IR Team verifies potential threat COA (threat entered into network via a spear-phishing email, compromised CIO credentials accessed specific documents relating to sensitive government contract and exfiltrated via FTP) and begins remediation actions. IR Team briefs Senior Management of technical response activity and progress. Senior Management discusses notification plan of action.
 Primary Audience: Senior Management, Legal Department, Public Relations Department & IR Team
8

#RSAC
Session 3: Review Organization's Response
 Goal Focus: Lines of Authority, Preparedness; Awareness of Gaps & Identification of external interaction
 Minimum Items/Questions that Target Audience Should Address:  Address potential threat entry & exfiltration methodology  Identify why the organization failed to recognize threat  Probability of its continued threat presence  Follow-on vigilance plan of action  Potential impact on business operations and any potential mitigation actions  Address PR preparedness  Address Legal & Regulatory requirements
 Learning Objectives:  Increase awareness of the scope of technical remediation plan of action  Increase awareness of the notification plan execution
9

#RSAC
Review: Get The Right Team
 Strategic View (Executives)  Operational View (Internal and External Technical Expertise)  Legal View (Internal and External)  External Communications View (Internal and External Expertise)  Financial View (Internal and Insurance Provider)
10

#RSAC
Review: Grasp What Matters Before Crisis
 Know questions to ask
 Understand the potential effects of plans and procedures
 Have established partner/expertise connections
 Understand and appreciate the approach and viewpoints regarding a cyber incident of other divisions within your organization
11

#RSAC
Wargaming Goals

 Goal #1: Understand Lines of Authority and Roles
 Responsibility
 Organizational view/approach to cyber incidents
 Communication

 Goal #3: Increase Awareness of Gaps and Vulnerabilities
 Investigative Capabilities  Detection & Reporting (Process & Communication)  Vendor management  Security Awareness buy-in and commitment of
resources

 Goal #2: Increase Preparedness  Goal #4: Identify Points of External

 Understand effects of plans and procedures Interaction

 Create level of confidence and prevent

 Individuals

future panic

 Agencies

 Press & Social Media

 Vendors
12

#RSAC
Exercise Takeaways
 Why
 Involve cross-silo segments, including internal & external sources  Allow focused development of a cyber-security response playbook  Demonstrate increased security maturity
 How
 Pick a scenario  Start to play  Take some notes
13

David Navetta Norton Rose Fulbright US LLP david.navetta@nortonrosefulbright.com +1.303.801.2732

Serge Jorgensen

Q & A

Sylint Group sdj@usinfosec.com

#RSAC

+1.941.951.6015

#RSAC
Alternate Scenarios
Scenario A: Stolen Documents
 On a Monday morning, the organization's legal department receives a call from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) regarding some suspicious activity involving the organization's systems. Later that day, an FBI agent meets with members of management and the legal department to discuss the activity. The FBI has been investigating activity involving public posting of sensitive government documents, and some of the documents reportedly belong to the organization. (Client / Partner / Internal information)
Scenario B: Compromised Database Server
 On a Tuesday night, a database administrator performs some off-hours maintenance on several production database servers. The administrator notices some unfamiliar and unusual directory names on one of the servers. After reviewing the directory listings and viewing some of the files, the administrator suspects that the server has been attacked and calls for guidance. (The team's investigation determines that the attacker successfully gained root access to the server four months ago).
Scenario C: Unknown Exfiltration
 On a Sunday night, one of the organization's network intrusion detection sensors alerts on anomalous outbound network activity involving large file transfers. The intrusion analyst reviews the alerts; it appears that thousands of .RAR files are being copied from an internal host to an external host, and the external host is located in another country. (The IR team is unable to see what the .RAR files hold because their contents are encrypted. Analysis of the internal host containing the .RAR files shows signs of a RAT installation.)
15

#RSAC
Alternate Scenarios
Scenario D: Unauthorized Access to Payroll Records
 On a Wednesday evening, the organization's physical security team receives a call from a payroll administrator who saw an unknown person leave her office and exit the building. The administrator had left her workstation unlocked and unattended for only a few minutes. The payroll program is still logged in and on the main menu, as it was when she left it, but the administrator notices that the mouse appears to have been moved.
Scenario E: Disappearing Host
 On a Thursday afternoon, a network intrusion detection sensor records vulnerability scanning activity directed at internal hosts that is being generated by an internal IP address. Because the intrusion detection analyst is unaware of any authorized, scheduled vulnerability scanning activity, she reports the activity to her supervisor. (Activity stops and that there is no longer a host using the IP address).
Scenario F: Telecommuting Compromise
 On a Saturday night, network intrusion detection software records an inbound connection originating from a watchlist IP address. The intrusion detection analyst determines that the connection is being made to the organization's VPN server and contacts his supervisor. (The IR team reviews the intrusion detection, firewall, and VPN server logs and identifies the user ID that was authenticated for the session and the name of the user associated with the user ID)
16

#RSAC
Alternate Scenarios
Scenario G: Peer-to-Peer File Sharing
 The organization prohibits the use of peer-to-peer file sharing services. The organization's network intrusion detection sensors have signatures enabled that can detect the usage of several popular peer-to-peer file sharing services. On a Monday evening, an intrusion detection analyst notices that several file sharing alerts have occurred during the past three hours, all involving the same internal IP address.
Scenario H: Unknown Wireless Access Point
 On a Monday morning, the organization's help desk receives calls from three users on the same floor of a building who state that they are having problems with their wireless access. A network administrator who is asked to assist in resolving the problem brings a laptop with wireless access to the users' floor. As he views his wireless networking configuration, he notices that there is a new access point listed as being available. He checks with his teammates and determines that this access point was not deployed by his team.
17

