SESSION ID: CXO-W03
Can Cyber Insurance Be Linked to Assurance?

Larry Clinton
President and CEO Internet Security Alliance @ISalliance

Dan Reddy
Adjunct Faculty: Engineering & Technology Quinsigamond Community College @danlj28

#RSAC

#RSAC
Rethinking Cyber Security
 Cyber security is NOT an "IT" issue  We are not worried (just) about hackers  The system is weak and getting weaker  We can't secure the perimeter  We should probably stop blaming the victims  We can't mandate security  Assuring security requires economic sustainability
2

#RSAC
The Economics of Cyber Security
 Breaches and stock value
 Sony stock UP 26% since their attack  Target UP 22% since their attack
 Modern technology and business practices can undermine security  The economics of cyber security are out of balance  How do we make security profitable/affordable?
3

#RSAC
The Government Turns Around
 2002 National Strategy to Secure Cyber Space - everything is going to be alright...
 2012 Leiberman-Collins proposed legislation
 DHS should mandate standards with SOX-like penalties for noncompliance
 It failed miserably !
 2013 President Obama's Cybersecurity Executive Order
 A social contract with industry  Consensus standards (NIST) motivated through market incentives
including insurance
4

#RSAC
Brief History of Cyber Insurance
 Traditional Insurance Policies to Cover Business Loss
 Business Personal Insurance Policies (first-party loss)  Business Interruption Policies  Commercial General Liability (CGL) or Umbrella Liability Policies (for damage to third parties)  Errors and Omissions Insurance (for Corp. Officers)
 1970s - Development of specialized policies that typically extended crime insurance to cover
against outsider gaining physical access to computer systems
 1998 - Advent of Hacker Insurance Policies
 2000 - Early Forms of Cyber Insurance (1st and 3rd Party) Appear
 1st Party ­ Generally, covers destruction or loss of information assets, Internet business interruption, cyber extortion, DDoS loss, PR reimbursement, fraudulent EFTs
 3rd Party ­ Generally, covers claims arising from Internet content, security, tech errors and omissions as well as defense costs
5

#RSAC
Benefits of Cyber Insurance (Nation)
 Ecosystem Benefits ­  Reduction of Externalities - Insurers require some level of security as a precondition of coverage, and companies adopting better security practices receive lower insurance rates; this helps companies to internalize both the benefits of good security and the costs of poor security, which in turn leads to greater investment and improvements in cybersecurity  Evolving Standards - Insurers have a strong interest in greater security, and their requirements are continually increasing
 Smoothing Mechanism - Insurance provides a smooth funding mechanism for recovery from major losses, helping to businesses to return to normal and reducing the need for government assistance
6

#RSAC
Benefits of Cyber Insurance (Policy Holder)
 Firm Benefits ­  In addition to the obvious benefit of legal and first-party expense reimbursement, the purchase of a specific cyber risk policy has a number of other indirect benefits, including:  The ability to obtain an objective, usually free, review of a company's network security by a third party (i.e., the insurer or its agent)  A better ability to understand the company's risk level by working with brokers and discussing policy options including what can and cannot be insured  Better quantification of net financial risk  Finally, the demonstration of the successful ability to purchase insurance could be a favorable factor with state regulators or the SEC who have published guidance on this topic
7

#RSAC
Challenges to Cyber Insurance
 Actuarial Data - Insurers have little actuarial data on which to base premium rates and make those rates competitive; they have attempted to overcome this hurdle by collecting relevant data and reaching out to research organizations, such as CSI and Verizon, that can provide contextual statistics on cyber risk.
 Complex Regulatory Environment - New federal data breach regulations are currently under consideration and consumer protection laws vary from state to state; liability for cyber incidents is sometimes ill-defined, and as a result litigation of a cyber insurance case is likely to be far more murky than a conventional one.
 "Monoculture" of Computing Technologies - Monoculture refers to low diversity of technologies deployed across enterprises thus making attacks easier to design for multiple targets.
8

#RSAC
(More) Challenges to Cyber Insurance
 Interconnectivity - Networked systems have the potential to infect one another in a cascading effect, as was the case with the Conficker worm. Again, in this case, insurers cannot use conventional risk models to analyze their exposure
 Traditional CAT (Catastrophic) Modeling Does Not Work ­ This is because it is based on geographic parameters which are not applicable to a cyber risk event
 Lack of Universal Demand ­ some segments of cyber market are growing rapidly (like PII) but catastrophic coverage remains difficult
9

Cyber Scenario #1: Government is the Insurer #RSAC of Last Resort ­ but...
 Insurers provide coverage but their own limits are backed up by Governments
 As with Acts of God, Government has role for catastrophic damages
 Pros: Provides an outer limit for Insurer's exposure. May create more reasonable costing in middle.
 Cons: Political concerns (not likely in post " Gov't Bailout" climate). Moral hazard. Not fair to the taxpayer.

#RSAC
Key Dynamics in the Scenarios
 What is covered, what is not?  Cost of Premiums
 What can lower my premiums? (Secret sauce handled by brokers)  How measureable are the preventative offsets to lower premiums?
 Is it better for the insurance industry and policy holders to have simplicity or more assurance?
 How can limits be established?  Is the coverage suitable for businesses of all sizes?
 How do industry profiles feed into the coverage and risks?
11

What's a Company to do? Some Questions to #RSAC Ask
 How much data are you willing to put at risk?  What risks will you avoid, accept, mitigate, or transfer?  Do you already have insurance covering cyber?  What will a new policy cover?  How are losses measured?  Does it cover ID theft?  Is there directors and officers liability (D&O) exposure?
12

#RSAC
Your Coverage May Vary
 First party  Breach management - actual incremental direct costs  Coverage on intangible assets (reputation, tarnished brand, etc.)  Business interruption  Response and remediation re: network protection & info assets  Cyber extortion  Ongoing protection against future threats
 Third party  Liability against law suits  1st party direct costs to 3rd parties (Identity theft & credit enrollments)  Cyber privacy - disclosure
 Exclusions  Limits
13

#RSAC
Cyber Scenario #2: Ride the Wave
 Working reasonably well for insurers and policy holders  Brokers sometimes stuck in middle
 Requirements to qualify - quite surmountable  Breach focused
 Costs are known: e.g., ID and credit protection  More due diligence won't change dynamics  Pros: Claim rate within acceptable range; some company peace of mind  Cons: May not scale for long term
14

Cyber Scenario #3: Detailed On-site

#RSAC

Assessment to Qualify

 Cyber experts (think red-team) conduct audit of defensive posture  Tied to business size/profile  External response team available for event management  Pros: Risk better understood by insurer. Client starts
improvements knowing the cost/benefit. Crisis resources available.  Cons: Heavy up front lift by insurer. Harder to make scalable

#RSAC
Cyber Scenario #4 ­ Survey Approach
 Insurers and policy holders want simplicity  The more the merrier. Can it follow the 80/20 rule for workability?
 Client completes questionnaire with 100 key indicator questions  Experts in company each contribute answers (technical, legal, business)  Weighted analysis of responses puts clients in banded tiers of risk
 Premiums and limits set accordingly  Pros: Some scalability means larger pools. Models are adjustable.  Cons: Heavy reliance on survey & models. Must create meaningful tiers.
16

#RSAC
Cyber Scenario #5 ­ "FICO®-like" Cyber Score
 3rd party calculates security rating score to reflect security posture of companies:
 Uses externally available indicators (e.g., security events & configurations) fed into algorithm to create a normalized score
 Scores used in profiling for insurance  Theory seems to be "If you are sloppy in your company's external web world then
you may be susceptible elsewhere."
 Pros: It's uniform and consistent. Doesn't require engagement with the company being rated. Just fighting to correct your score may actually improve your readiness.
 Cons: The indicators are debatable as whether they have a strong correlation to your cyber security posture. In cloud or outsourced service world, the purchased infrastructure may not be reflective of your company's protection.
17

Cyber Scenario #6 ­ Organization (Policy Holder)

#RSAC

gets Certified or Assessed Using Standards

 Organization complies to security standards as part of profile assessment  Examples:
 Critical infrastructure complies with Cybersecurity Framework (NIST)  Audited using ISO 27001/27002 security standards
 Pros: Allows organization to manage their own work, can be measurable without heavy investment by Insurer. Cost/benefit becomes more evident.
 Cons: Not simple or fast. (may take year+ to complete). Many controls may not be cost effective.

18

#RSAC
Reference Models for Cyber Assurance?

 ISO/IEC 27001/27002
 Management practices and security controls
 27001 alone: 114 security controls in 12 groups
 Applies to any organization

 NIST Cybersecurity Framework
 5 Functions
 22 categories
 98 subcategories
 Applies to "Critical Infrastructure"

 SANS Top 20 controls
 Consensus guidelines
 Many agree "Just do these 20 things"

 "Economics of Cybersecurity"
[AFCEA Cyber Committee;
[Australian Department of National Defence's (DND)]
 4 controls that are most cost effective
1. Restricting user installation of apps "whitelisting"
2. Ensuring that the operating system is patched with (security) updates
3. Ensuring that software apps have current updates
4. Restricting administrative privileges

#RSAC
Recommended Composite for More Assurance
 Start with evidence that cost effective controls have been implemented.  Offer incentives to stretch beyond cost effective controls (4) to get next set of reasonable controls.
 Qualification to get better tiers of coverage (more coverage beyond breach and privacy loss)
 Significant premium reduction
 Pros: Practical. Organizations should be doing cost effective controls anyway. Reasonable stretch can actually raise all boats . Simple enough and scalable.
 Cons: Doing anything with focus is hard (even top 4). Could still be hard to measure consistently. (e.g., how often should updates be applied?)
20

#RSAC
Apply It: Consider Your Use Case
 Buyer Persona :
 What is your carrier/broker doing to have you qualify or to offset premiums?  Bring what you learned from scenarios
 What's covered and what's not?  Consider the post breach focused world
 Insurance Carrier Persona: What are you expecting from buyers?
 Simple model or complex evaluation to qualify or set premiums?  Seeing this potential are you more encouraged about the market?  Are your brokers on board with you?
 Government/Industry Persona: Will more cyber insurance generate more prevention activities? Can it encourage more voluntary investments?
 What role does government play?
21

