SESSION ID: ECO-W02
Addressing the Global Supply Chain Threat Challenge ­ Huawei, a Case Study

Andy Purdy
Chief Security Officer Huawei Technologies USA

#RSAC

Huawei is a global organization serving over a #RSAC third of the planet's population.

 A leading global ICT solutions, Fortune Global 500 company
 Operations in 170 countries, 150,000 employees, 73% recruited locally
 70,000 employees in R&D  15 R&D centers; 25 Joint
Innovation Centers
 $46 B revenue in 2014  Serving 45 of the world's top 50
operators

Global R&D
Global Supply
Global Service

Establish

Extend

in IT Solutions in Enterprise Market

Lead
in Networks

Lead
in Telecom Carriers

Expand
in Devices

Expand
In Consumer Market

Secure products, solutions and services

2

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

Toward a risk-based, level playing field for ICT

 Supply Chain Risk ­ Huawei is working with the Open Group Trusted Technology Forum and other major companies and government to gain international support for the Open Group Trusted Technology Provider Standard and accreditation program.

3

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

Toward a risk-based, level playing field for ICT (2)

 EastWest Institute Cyber Initiative ­ EWI is working with key companies (Huawei and Microsoft and others) and governments (US, China, Russia, UK, Germany, India, etc.) to seek agreement on contentious cyber issues, including the global availability of more secure ICT products.

4

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

The Open Group Trusted Technology Forum

5

#RSAC
Huawei and Cyber Security
"Huawei guarantees that its commitment to cyber security will never be outweighed by the consideration of commercial interests. ... ItCyber Securityis for our survival."
 To meet our customers' security and assurance requirements with transparency
 To strengthen ­ and promote transparency about ­ Huawei global and US assurance programs among customers and stakeholders.
 To promote adoption of a fact-based, risk informed, transparent, level-playing field for ICT products and services
6

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

Critical Success Factors for Global Assurance

 Organizational commitment  Strategy based on addressing future challenges  Clear governance roles and responsibilities

7

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

Critical Success Factors for Global Assurance

 Consistent, repeatable processes
 Robust verification -- "assume nothing, believe no-one and check everything." Plan, Do, Check, Act.
 Openness and transparency regarding progress, successes, and failures

8

Huawei Global Supply Network

#RSAC

Mexico

Panama HUB TBD

Netherland

Hungary

Dubai

Chengdu India

Beijing
Shanghai China

Reverse center Supply center Regional hub Regional hub Under feasibility

Source:
Brazil  US: 32%,the largest material source  Taiwan, Japan & Korea: 28% components);  Europe: 10%  Mainland China: 30% (cable, battery, mechanical parts, cabinet, etc.)

Supply Center

Regional Hub

 China (Delivery for the globe)

 

Europe (Delivery for West Europe &North Africa) Mexico (Delivery for North America & Latin



Dubai (United Arab

America)

Emirates )

 Brazil (Delivery for South Latin America )  India (Delivery for India)

 Netherlands

Reverse Center
 China  Mexico  Europe

Local EMS
 Brazil , Mexico, India and Hungary supply centers work with local partners to do manufacturing and make delivery

9

Global Supply Chain Threats

Stakeholders Main Threats Malware Unauthorized "Parts" Unauthorized Configuration Scrap/Sub-standard Parts Unauthorized Production
Intentionally Damage
Confidentiality

Tainted

Upstream

Downstream











 Integrity

 Availability

Counterfeit

Upstream

Downstream











Traceability

Authenticity

Courtesy of the Open Group
10

#RSAC

#RSAC
Supply Chain Security Strategy
Objective: E-2-E assurance in all stages of supply chain: trusted material, manufacturing, software, logistics, regional warehousing, and distribution.
Efficiency  Promote timely and efficient flow of products and services in the supply chain  Protect the supply chain from exploitation  Reduce the risks of supply chain interruption.
11

#RSAC
Supply Chain Security Strategy
Objective: E-2-E assurance in all stages of supply chain: trusted material, manufacturing, software, logistics, regional warehousing, and distribution.

Security

 Ensure products and services integrity in global supply chain.  Identify and resolve threats early in the process and strengthen the security of supply chain infrastructure, logistics and information assets  Establish a sustainable supply chain security management system. Identify supply chain risks and work out improvement plans to ensure the supply chain can quickly recover from disruption due to changing threats and risks.  Establish an accurate and effective traceability system to identify and mark problems at the first time and recover and improve the supply chain quickly and pointedly.
12

#RSAC
Supply Chain Security Strategy
Objective: E-2-E assurance in all stages of supply chain: trusted material, manufacturing, software, logistics, regional warehousing, and distribution.
 Identify supply chain risks and work out Resilience improvement plans to ensure the supply chain
can quickly recover from disruption due to changing threats and risks.  Establish an accurate and effective traceability system to identify and mark problems at the first time and recover and improve the supply chain quickly and pointedly.
13

#RSAC
Supply Chain Cyber Security Baseline Management

Improve continuously

Identify risks
Baseline Mgmt.

Develop baselines

Check the implementation

Integrate into processes

14

#RSAC
Supply Chain Cyber Security Baseline Management
Based on risks to the supply chain and customer & government requirements:
- we develop cyber security baselines, aiming to protect product integrity, traceability, and authenticity, and
- take a built-in approach to integrate the baselines into processes.
We have developed nearly100 baselines around 10 security elements.
15

#RSAC
Supply Chain Cyber Security Baseline Management
 Laws and regulations  Infrastructure security  Access control  Incoming material security  Manufacturing security
16

#RSAC
Supply Chain Cyber Security Baseline Management
 Software delivery security  Order fulfillment security  Traceability system  Emergency response  Risk analysis improvement and audit
17

#RSAC
Framework of SCM Cyber Security Baselines

Physical security
Prevent tampering and implanting in logic through preventing unauthorized physical access

Integrity Authenticity Traceability

Software delivery security
Ensure SW integrity by E2E prevention of unauthorized physical access and technical verification methods

Organization, process and awareness
Establish baselines based on risk analysis and embed baselines into daily operation of processes
18

Supply Chain Management Security

#RSAC

Logistics and return are key areas of security risk.

Shenzhen/EMS Shipment

International Transportation

Custom Clearance

Inspect goods to ensure they are not tampered with during and after delivery.
Region WH

Deliver to Site

Site Installation

Site Acceptance

Central WH

Customer WH

Subcontractor WH

SZ/HK Supplier ship to WH

Return Site Goods

Receive Return Goods

Local Purchase
Develop deposal solution of return goods

Ship back return goods

Warehouse physical security will reduce product risk due to component substitution, etc.
Re-use of Scrapping of return goods return goods

Returned materials must be inspected/approved for reuse, to prevent reuse of insecure products.

19

Integrity and Traceability

#RSAC

Integrated processes/technology in supply chain

 ISO28000 supply chain security system operating and 3rd certification.
 Global multi-supply centres to provide efficient and resilient supply to customers.
 Barcode system to support tracing

ISO28000 certificate

Security of incoming materials

Security of Factory (EMS)

Security of logistics & warehousing

Infrastructure & entry control7*24 security guard and CCTV monitoring, Electronic entry control & identify identification system

C-TPAT 3rd party audit report

20

Manufacturing Security
Ensures product and component security

Incoming Material

Material setup

PCBA Mfg. PCBA FT

#RSAC
Maintenance

IQC
Incoming Material
FQC

Material setup

IPQC/PQC
PCBA Mfg.

OQC 21

FT: Function Test ST: System Test; IQC: incoming quality control; IPQC: in-process quality control PQC: product quality control FQC: final quality control OQC: outgoing quality control PCBA: Printed Circuit Board Assembly

Secure and Efficient Delivery

#RSAC

World-class logistics service providers (LSPs)

Secure logistics solution

 Global-Region-Country logistics solution;  Route security analysis  Business continuity assurance solution

Trusted LSP  Industry role model, secure main LSP  Sign security agreement
Visualized  Visualized transportation process; process  IT systems record logistics process details.

22

Secure and Efficient Delivery

#RSAC

World-class logistics service providers (LSPs) (2)

Standardized  Follow C-TPAT

Warehouse  Record barcode when product leaves warehouse

Mgt.

 7*24 security guard & CCTV; Access control

Products reverse Mgmt.

 Return material with customer info. cleared out.  Manage according to government and customer's
rules and requirements.

23

Supplier Management

#RSAC

Reduce potential risks and mitigate security threats

 Security is one of the seven elements of supplier management TQRDCES (Technology, Quality, Response, Delivery, Cost, Environment and CSR, security).
 All Suppliers that are related to cyber security must sign the cyber security agreement, and pass the cyber security system qualification.
 All materials of cyber security must pass the material security test and qualification.

24

Supplier Management

#RSAC

Reduce potential risks and mitigate security threats

Manage Supplier

Manage Procurement Requirement

Manage Supplier Qualification Baseline

Manage Supplier Selection Baseline

Manage Procurement

Manage Supplier

Strategy

Qualification/Selection

Manage Fulfillment & Acceptance

Manage Manage Supplier Supplier Performance Portfolio

Manage Supplier Organization Relationship

Manage Supplier Quality

Manage Supplier Phase-out

Manage Supplier Security

Supplier and Material Security
Certification

Procurement Security
Agreement and Execution

Supplier Security audit and emergency Response

Measures

MEASURES

Security test And
Acceptance

Supplier Security Performance and Phase Out

25

Supplier Management

#RSAC

Measures

Manage Supplier Security

Supplier and Material Security
Certification

Procurement Security
Agreement and Execution

Supplier Security audit and emergency Response

Security test And
Acceptance

Supplier Security Performance and Phase Out

Measures

 Procurement security baseline
 Material Security Sourcing and Qualification
 Supplier Security System Certification

 Sign Supplier Security Agreement
 Implement Supplier Security Agreement
 Security training

 Supplier  Security Risk and
audit  Supplier Security
Vulnerabilities improvement  Supplier Emergency Response

 Incoming Material Security Check
 Engineering Cyber Security Acceptance
 Logistics Security Acceptance

 Supplier Security Performance Evaluation
 Supplier Security Performance Application
 Supplier Security Phase Out

26

Supplier Security System Qualification

#RSAC

Cyber Security Evaluation

Supplier cyber security risk evaluation involves a determination of risk, using an audit checklist that includes 10 items, 42 questions, each of which is weighted to contribute to the total score.

- Security agreement - Security assurance system - Product security - Security testing - Open source software security
27

- Delivery security - Product service security - Emergency response - Traceability - Personnel management

Supplier Security Performance

#RSAC

Scorecard and Product Test

 Appraise the suppliers' performance in security each year and the appraisal result will be applied in the selection and phase-out of suppliers
 Security testing of materials include the testing for selection of new materials, at shipment, and at arrival at Huawei.

28

Supplier Security Performance
Scorecard and Product Test

 Pass the product security test  Products do not contain any unknown functions  Products or services are traceable  Product security emergency response  Cyber security training

Sourcing Test
 Material specifications  Cyber security technical
quality risk assessment report  Cyber security sourcing process

Supplier product test
 Supplier sign security agreement including security test
 Supplier security test

29

#RSAC
Incoming Materials Test
 Perform virus test for cyber security critical materials
 Perform virus inspection and comparison with standard source software for software

#RSAC
End-2-End Traceability System
 Process of product design & contact delivery ensures rapid locating and querying
 We look to:
 trace every component from every supplier, every route, factory, logistics method, R&D center, and end customer product and back.
 trace any software request from the customer through every stage in the process, through design, software coding, testing, QA, authorization, live deployment and back to the original source.
30

#RSAC
Software Development Traceability
From customer requirement to final release.

Concept Plan

Development

Qualify Launch Lifecycle

31

Product Traceability in Supply Chain
From contract to delivery.

Client PO Customer

Supply Chain
Contract Requirement
Mgmt

Return logistics

Raw Material Semi Product
Hardware Supplier &
EMS

Product manufacturing

Logistics
Regional Warehouse Return

#RSAC
Return Mgmt
Customer

Site Installation

Software Supplier

3rd Party Software

SW & HW Design
R&D

3rd Party Software License

32

Third Party Supplier Management

#RSAC

Leverage Purchasing Power ­ Top 100 Requirements

End-to-end cyber security means a vendor must work with their own vendors to adopt best practice cyber security approaches.
61. How does the vendor conduct security management with their suppliers? Has the vendor established relevant security criteria and passed them to their suppliers? How frequently does the vendor update their criteria to ensure they keep up-to-date with the latest thinking? 62. What procurement process requirements do the vendor's suppliers take with their suppliers?
63. Does the vendor have contractual clauses or security agreements in place with their core technology suppliers that provide a comprehensive, risk informed set of requirements that they must meet?

33

#RSAC
Conclusion
 There is no simple, cookie-cutter approach to understanding and managing supply chain risk.
 Managing supply chain risk appropriately requires organizational commitment and a comprehensive end-to-end approach based on standards and best practices with independent verification for each critical component.
 Agreement on a global supply chain standard, such as the Open Group OTTPS, could contribute to reduction in supply chain risk and increased trust.
34

#RSAC
Apply What You Have Learned Today
 Next week you should:
 Determine if/how you address supply chain risk within your organization and the security risk of your suppliers.
 In the first three months following this presentation you should:
 Assess the adequacy of your supply chain risk controls and your security requirements for your suppliers
 Review the Open Group Trusted Technology Provider Standard (OTTPS)  Review the Huawei security papers, Making cyber security a part of a
company's DNA - A set of integrated processes, policies and standards (October 2013), and Top100 cyber security requirements.  Implement a supply chain risk mitigation strategy appropriate to your risk, including risk-informed security requirements for your suppliers.
35

Huawei and Cyber Security

#RSAC

Huawei's cyber security White Paper series

21st century technology and security ­ a difficult
marriage (September 2012)
2012
http://www.huawei.com/ilink/ en/download/HW_U_202577

Making cyber security a part of a company's DNA - A set
of integrated processes, policies and standards
(October 2013)
2013
http://www.huawei.com/ilink /en/download/HW_310547
36

Top100 cyber security requirements
2014
http://www.huawei.com/ilink /en/download/HW_401430

