SESSION ID: ECO-F02
Avoiding the 'Creepy Factor' in Biometric and Other Technologies

Dr. Thomas P. Keenan, FCIPS, I.S.P., ITCP
Professor, Faculty of Environmental Design and Department of Computer Science University of Calgary
Research Fellow, Canadian Defence and Foreign Affairs Institute @drfuture

#RSAC

#RSAC
Why Biometrics Will Rule The World
 Passwords are severely broken
 Even the butt of jokes: "I needed a password eight characters long so I picked Snow White and the Seven Dwarves" ­ Comedian Nick Helm
 Convenience is king  Technology is getting better  It's true that e.g. hashes are collected, not full fingerprints  Legal forces are pushing for non-repudiation
 Oct 1, 2015: USA Fraud liability shifts to non-chip merchants  Already in Canada: shifted to consumer if PIN entered
2

#RSAC
Why Biometrics Will Creep People Out
 It's so "you" ­ you can't change your fingerprint or retinal scan  Snowden revelations about government tracking  Revelations about business tracking
 "Target Knows Teen is pregnant" is a great yarn but there are more realistic predictive analytic business cases (divorce prediction; likelihood you'll switch insurers; creditworthiness via your friends)
 FBX and the like: I'm being pursued by a wall oven and a rental car  "Smart shelves" in supermarkets that guess your age, gender, BMI
3

#RSAC
ID Tech Is Already Getting Under On, Our Skin
Source: vivalnk.com
4

#RSAC
They're even claiming a "cool factor"
That's a microphone!
Source: IC10, via telegraph.co.uk
5

#RSAC
And, it's patented technology
Source: uspto.gov
6

Motorola/Google's "Password Pill"
Source: slate.com 7

#RSAC
"superpower"
"cyborg" "dystopian" "mark to the beast"
"Google's creepiest idea ever" (bgr.com)

#RSAC
My Research into Technocreepiness

-There are "wheels within wheels"
-Facebook Exchange -Progressive Snapshot -23andme data use -even good ol' Furby
-Most people, don't, won't and perhaps even can't understand exactly what's going on

Tom Keenan photo
8

-Still, they have an uneasy feeling
Source: Wikipedia

#RSAC
Some Creepy Theory (Keenan, 2014)
9

#RSAC
"This app takes creepy to new level" ­ NY Times
Source: Girls Around Me 10

#RSAC
Girls Around Me

Creepy

Less Creepy

 Name: "Girls Around Me"

 Name: "New Friend Finder"

 Reputation: Bad once NYT got it  Reputation: Could Have Managed

 Surprise: Definitely for the girl

 Surprise: Maybe a Handshake

 Control: Low for the Girl

 Control: Shared consent

 Mysterious: Came Out of the Blue  Warnings on Facebook, Foursquare (unlikely!)

11

Open Government Data Can Be Very Creepy... #RSAC and How To Make it Less Creepy
© 2005, Westjet
A famous guy (Westjet Airlines founder Clive Beddoe)
12

#RSAC
City of Calgary "Fairshare" property Tax Systems
 You have a right to know how your neighbor is assessed  Replaced a very flawed manual system
13

Oops! - A Creepy Secondary Industry Powered #RSAC by City Tax Data Access

© 2014 Assessment Advisory Group, Inc. Used with permission

© City of Calgary, 2006 15

How Calgary Made the Fairshare System Less #RSAC Creepy
 Technical Safeguards
 Log IP address  Limit inquiries per day (which causes other problems)
 New Protocol
 Two tiers of information, public (just assessment $) and registered user (more information)
 Legal Safeguards
 Specific assertion of copyright  Prohibition against commercial use, data mining, robots, etc.
16

#RSAC
What the Lawyers Came Up With
© 2015 City of Calgary 17

#RSAC
A Private Sector Case: Usage Based Insurance
 UBI's appeal: "You might save $"  Progressive Snapshot®  Free trial  "No downside"
© 2015, Progressive Insurance
 Snapshot was designed to avoid creepiness  Doesn't track where you drive, just when, how much, how hard
18

#RSAC
UBI Smartphone Apps ARE Creepy

 Allstate Insurance Drivewise® in U.S.  Desjardins Insurance Ajusto in Canada
 Tracks where you drive as well as speed, posted speed limit, acceleration, braking, distance, time of day  40% of new customers in ON and QC opted in  Advertises savings up to 25% but typically 8%  Won't sell info, however subject to subpoena  Gameified: "challenge your friends" with "free app"  "Trading privacy for (possible) savings"
19

© 2015 Desjardins Insurance

#RSAC
Watchback and Data Aggregation
 "Your Porn is Watching You", Motherboard article by Brian Merchant, April 6, 2015
 "According to Alexa, the analytic service, XVideos is the 43rd most visited website in the world. By way of comparison, Gmail is 66th. Netflix is 53rd."
 "Ghostery revealed that each site has tracking elements installed, and thus is transmitting data to a number of third-party corporations, including Google, Tumblr, and industry-specific ad services like Pornvertising and DoublePimp."
 If you're famous, and even if you're not, you might not want this information shared too widely
20

#RSAC
Data Aggregation: Not Just for Big Companies
21

What is Coming Down the

#RSAC

Line in Biometrics and

Biocreepiness

#RSAC
Here come the digital bloodhounds
Source: Universidad Politécnica de Madrid © 2015
23

#RSAC
Does logging on make your heart skip a beat?
Source: nymi.com
24

#RSAC
Typing Rhythm
 I did a "proof of concept", funded by Canada's NSERC in 1980s
 Other researchers, such as Wes Masri, Ali El-Hajj and Ravel Jabbour of the American University of Beirut raved about Key Pattern Analysis in 2011 to double-validate passwords
 Seeds of its own demise: The longer (hence likely stronger) the password, the harder it was to type consistently

Source: Wikipedia

25

#RSAC
The Problem of Promising Too Much

Source: CTV News
26

Nexus: Iris scan with an issued (but not read) card
That's a hard computer science problem (lookup vs. validation)
They malfunctioned in an "interesting way"
Have been replaced

#RSAC
Concern: Who's Getting all this Bio-Information?
Source: Gizmodo.com, ©2013
27

#RSAC
Workplace issues
 Companies are giving fitness monitors and other wearable to employees as part of fitness programs
 "Four out of five employees would use company-provided wearable that tracks health and wellness and provide that data to their employer." (http://www.cornerstoneondemand.com/SOWP14)
 Perks might include discounts on fitness programs, extra vacations days, a bonus
 BUT...
28

#RSAC
Source: Licensed from Colourbox 29

#RSAC
Others concerns re "my biometrics"
 Could be used to see if employee got a good night's sleep  If Google can make smart contact lenses for diabetics, are
continuous drug tests far away?  Genetic information, if shared, can reveal many hidden facts,
health risks, even things about relatives  Providing biometrics could become "de facto mandatory"
 Lenddo sets interest rate based on your Facebook friends  Progressive Insurance provides discounts if you use Snapshot®  And, my favorite...
30

#RSAC
"The Creepiest Place in America"
MyMagic+ RFID (tracking) wristband Not only are you tracked in the park, you are led around by the nose! The Smellitzer®
Source: findingmickey.com
31

#RSAC
And, hey, that information can be stolen

Source: threatpost.com

32

#RSAC
What Is to Be Done?

Summary: How to Make This Presentation

#RSAC

"News You Can Use" Right Away

 Even before you get back to the office, list technologies that you use or are considering using that have biometric components

 Apply this "creepy lens" to identify ways in which each might upset people, now or in the future

 Think about ways in which the information might be combined with other sources to the detriment of privacy, or even perceived privacy

 Come up with alternatives that will produce "pretty good information" A sign-in sheet at the company gym will track attendance, if not effort, as well as a fitness band.

 Think: What do you really need to collect? Why do you want it?
34

Longer term application of what you have

#RSAC

learned today

 Check your data retention policies (example: videotapes should usually be erased after 7 days if not requested)
 Consider whether some data should be de-identified (which can be difficult!) or collected anonymously or not at all
 View every new technology through the creepy lens and make sure the benefits outweigh the risks
 Don't Be Creepy!

35

#RSAC
Thank you!
 Dr. Thomas P. Keenan, FCIPS, I.S.P., ITCP  keenan@ucalgary.ca  www.technocreep.com  @drfuture
36

