SESSION ID: LAW-W04
Managing Expectations: The SEC & FTC Target InfoSEC Compliance

MODERATOR:
Patrick Oot
Partner Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP @patrickoot

PANELISTS: David Shonka Principal Deputy General Counsel Federal Trade Commission
Jerami Kemnitz
Global Discovery Counsel Wells Fargo

#RSAC
John Davis
Executive Director and Counsel UBS AG
Randy Sabett
Special Counsel Cooley LLP

Please Participate:

#RSAC

www.pollev.com/RSA2015

#RSAC
Overview
 Identify Recent Regulatory Initiatives at Executive Agencies  Discuss Recent Information Security Indicatives at  FTC, FCC and SEC  Recent actions against organizations for failed information security  Questions  Consider how your organization might react to additional changes
in regulation
3

The statements and views of

panelists are his or her own,

and do not necessarily

#RSAC

represent the views of their

employer.

Federal Trade Commission

#RSAC

(FTC)

#RSAC
Test Your Regulatory Skills
In Feb. 2015 Erica Entrepreneur a software developer launches Elephantine Enterprises, Inc. (EE) Her site links transaction information directly to users' e-mail address. EE employees can access transaction data with "PASSWORD" In March A precocious Edmund Elementary 3rd grader hacks and downloads her entire database. Were Erica's security measures reasonable? 1. Yes, she is a small start-up ­ should not be held to a high standard 2. Yes, She just launched and is within the sunrise period for compliance 3. No, Erica was unreasonable for using PASSWORD 4. No, but Erica is entitled to retaliate, even if her actions could wipe
Edmund Elementary' s network
6

#RSAC
Federal Trade Commission Enforcement

Deception:
 Material Misrepresentation or Omission
 Express or Implied
Deceptive

Unfair

Unfair
 Act or Practice Likely to Cause Substantial Harm to Consumers
 That Consumers cannot avoid
 And that has no countervailing benefit

7

#RSAC
Federal Trade Commission Enforcement
 FTC is the principal consumer protection and privacy agency. Responsible for law enforcement, public education and guides
 Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act) (15 USC 45) prohibits ``unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce.''
 If a company makes materially misleading statements or omissions about privacy or data security that are likely to mislead reasonable consumers, such statements or omissions are deceptive.
8

#RSAC
Recent FTC Enforcement Actions
 TRENDnet, Inc.,
 No. C-4426 (F.T.C. Jan. 16, 2014) (consent order).
 FTC v. Wyndham Worldwide Corp. et al.,
 Civil No. 13-1887 (D.N.J. Apr. 7, 2014)
 Craig Brittain,
 File No. 132-3120 (F.T.C. Jan. 29, 2015) (proposed consent)
 FTC v. Sitesearch Corp. d/b/a LeapLab
 (D. Az. filed Dec. 23, 2014)
9

#RSAC
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) News
 FTC recently announced formation of its Office of Technology Research and Investigation (OTRI), an office meant to "ensure that consumers enjoy the benefits of technological progress without being placed at risk of deceptive and unfair practices."
 The OTRI is the successor to the MTU, and will build upon their great work by tackling an even broader array of investigative research on technology issues involving all facets of the FTC's consumer protection mission, including privacy, data security, connected cars, smart homes, algorithmic transparency, emerging payment methods, big data, and the Internet of Things.
10

Federal Communications

#RSAC

Commission

(FCC)

#RSAC
FCC Efforts re Cyber and Framework Adoption
 Advisory groups since 2001; Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC)
 Multi-stakeholder with over 50 security experts appointed by FCC Chairman to develop and recommend practical cybersecurity best practices and solutions
 "The FCC was pleased to participate in [the NIST Framework dev't]. Now the next phase of hard work begins. It is time to operationalize the framework within the communications sector to keep America's information economy strong." ­ Tom Wheeler, FCC Chairman, February 2014
 Stakeholders must "create a new paradigm of cyber readiness" that must at once be more dynamic than traditional, slow-paced prescriptive regulation yet "demonstrably" more effective than "blindly trusting the market or voluntary best practices." ­ Chairman Wheeler, June 2014
 Report released March 19, 2015, with following recommendations:
 adapting the voluntary Framework to effectively manage cybersecurity risk  sharing of cyber threat information among communications companies  using network availability as an indicator of successful cybersecurity risk management
12

#RSAC
FCC Privacy/Data Security Enforcement Efforts
 Three privacy-related actions in 2014, involving robocalls, violations of do-not-text requests, and unlawful marketing
 $10M in October 2014 enforcement actions against two companies  Two carriers provided subsidized phone service to low income consumers and retained a third party vendor for various services, including data storage on dedicated servers  Data was stored in clear and accessible via the Internet using simple searches  FCC found violation of Sec. 222(a) (failure to protect customer proprietary information) and Sec. 201(b) (failure to notify was unjust or unreasonable practices)
 $25M in April 8, 2015 enforcement action against AT&T  Call center employees in Mexico, Columbia, and Philippines found to be acquiring names and partial SSNs, then selling those to people who used them to unlock stolen AT&T phones that found their way to the secondary market  FCC again found violations of Sec. 222 and Sec. 201(b)  "As today s action demonstrates, the Commission will exercise its full authority against companies that fail to safeguard the personal information of their customers"
13

Securities and Exchange

#RSAC

Commission

(SEC)

"Cybersecurity threats know no boundaries. That's why assessing the readiness of market participants and providing investors with information on how to better protect their
#RSAC
online investment accounts from cyber threats has been and will continue to be an important focus of the SEC" (SEC Chair Mary Joe White, Feb 3, 2015)

#RSAC
SEC Cybersecurity Examination Initiative
 The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations ("OCIE") protects investors through administering the SEC's nationwide examination and inspection program.
 On April 15, 2014, announced Cybersecurity Examination Initiative
 February 3, 2015 Cybersecurity Examination Exam Sweep Summary
 examined 57 registered broker-dealers and 49 registered investment advisers

#RSAC
Broader Governmental Initiative
 Financial Industry
 Jan 2014: FINRA broker-dealer cyberexam sweep letters  May/Oct. 2014: NY State Department of Financial Services (DoFS)
report and survey Each released reports in February/April 2015
 Overseas: regulatory inquiries and EC proposed directives on cybersecurity
17

OCIE Risk Alert:

#RSAC

Cyber Examinations focused on how firms:

 Identify cybersecurity risks  Establish cybersecurity policies, procedures, and oversight
processes  Protect their networks and information  Identify and address risks associated with remote access to client
information, funds transfer requests, and third-party vendors  Detect, and have experienced, unauthorized activity  Report on incidents

#RSAC
Third Party Risk
 2015 priority area of examination
 DoFS considering regulations
 Industry reliance on providers for critical banking functions  Perceived weak link
 Traditional outsourcing co's (check payment; data processing, etc.)  Professional firms: e.g., accountants, law firms
· Forthcoming Sedona Conference WG1 draft paper: "Privacy and Information Security: Guidelines and Best Practices for Lawyers, Law Firms, and Other Legal Service Providers", Shonka ed.; Davis contr.
19

#RSAC
Test Your Regulatory Skills
Green Mountain Financial is a publically traded exotic financial products broker. Prior to the earnings call Tom Technical used a readily accessible service account to access an encrypted finance server to obtain pre-announcement earnings information. Tom and his father made millions. GMF fired Tom and cooperated fully with SEC & DOJ. Is GMF in the clear?
A.) Probably, GMF cooperated. Only those that acted on the information can be charged under US Securities Law.
B.) Probably, GMF encrypted the drive ­ a reasonable precaution
C.) Maybe Not, financial regulations impose a duty on GMF to supervise and monitor employees
D.) Put Tom and his dad in the clink, regulations impose a duty on GMF to require employees to seek approval to trade in company stock
20

#RSAC
Securities and Exchange Commission Oversight
 Insider traders are usually charged with Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5
 However, risk of liability may exist for organization  Exchange Act Section 15(g) requires that registered broker-dealers
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of their business, to prevent its misuse in violation of the securities laws by the broker-dealer or its associated persons.  Misuse of Material Nonpublic Information ("MNPI").
21

#RSAC
BUSTED!
Reference: SA Eric R. Zimmerman Federal Bureau of Investigation 22

#RSAC
Questions?
23

#RSAC
Application
 Participate in the regulatory process  Consider FTC and SEC Regulations, along with FCC
enforcement actions, and how they might affect your business  Consider reasonableness in information security practices  Monitor dockets of active breach cases
24

