SESSION ID: PROF-M04
Building The Bridge Across The Great Minority Cyber Divide
#RSAC

MODERATOR:
Larry Whiteside Jr.
C0-Founder & Executive VP ICMCP International Consortium of Minority Cybersecurity Professionals (ICMCP) @LarryWhiteside

PANELISTS:
Renee Forney
Executive Director CyberSkills Management Support Initiative (CMSI) U.S. Department of Homeland Security

Lisa Foreman-Jiggetts
Founder & CEO Women's Society of Cyberjutsu Girls & Women's Society of Cyberjutsu
Joyce Brocaglia CEO, Alta Associates Founder, Executive Women's Forum on Information Security, Risk Management & Privacy

#RSAC
The Problem
 Cybersecurity has been identified in the USA as a key national strategy priority
 Globally Cybersecurity is one of the most serious economic and national security challenges
 There is global under-representation of minorities in the fast-growing discipline of cybersecurity
 "Grassroot Efforts" to increase the number of minority students pursuing cyber security degrees are critical.
2

Organizations Represented

#RSAC

Panelist

Organization

Description

Larry Whiteside Jnr (Moderator) Co-Founder & Executive VP ICMCP

International Consortium of Minority Cybersecurity Professionals (ICMCP) www.icmcp.org

ICMCP is a non-profit association that is dedicated to the academic and professional success of women and other minority cybersecurity students and professionals.

Renee Forney, Executive Director, Cyberskills Management Support Initiative

CyberSkills Management Support Initiative (CMSI) U.S. Department of Homeland Security

DHS CyberSkills Management Support Initiative (CMSI), leads Department-wide cybersecurity workforce programs involving workforce analysis, recruitment, retention, training, and pipeline development.

Lisa Foreman-Jiggetts, Founder & CEO, Women's Society of Cyberjutsu,

Women's Society of Cyberjutsu, www.womenscyberjutsu.org

Joyce Brocaglia, CEO, Alta Associates Founder, Executive Women Forum

Executive Women's Forum (EWF) www.ewf-usa.com
Alta Associates Inc. www.altaassociates.com

The Women's Society of Cyberjutsu (WSC) is a non-profit, 501c(3) organization passionate about helping and empowering women to succeed in the cybersecurity field. The primary mission is to advance women in cybersecurity by providing programs and partnerships that promote networking, education, mentoring, resource-sharing, and opportunities.
Alta Associates is the leading search firm specializing in Information Security and IT Risk. The EWF is the largest member organization serving emerging leaders and the most prominent female professionals in the Information Security Risk Management and Privacy industries. The EWF's core mission is to attract, retain and develop leaders in our field.

Call to Action

#RSAC

 Are you passionate about the problem stated?
 Connect with us and work with our organizations
 Have your Diversity/HR/Learning and Development group reach out and work with us
 Ask your company to connect and become a sponsor
 Become a mentor/sponsor/role model to middle or high school minorities and girls in their respective programs
 GET INVOLVED!

4

The Problem Space

#RSAC

5

#RSAC
Alarming Statistics
 A total of 48 percent of bachelor's degree students and 69 percent of associate's degree students who entered STEM fields between 2003 and 2009 had left these fields by spring 2009.
 The new report by The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, a coalition of more than 200 advocacy and outreach groups, said that less than 3 percent of Blacks have earned a degree in the natural sciences or engineering fields by the age of 24 and that the STEM labor force is projected to grow by 2.6 million jobs over the next five years. Researchers said that more than half of those jobs will go to people with bachelor's or master's degrees.
 According to the National Math and Science Initiative: "STEM job creation over the next 10 years will outpace nonSTEM jobs significantly, growing 17 percent, as compared to 9.8 percent for non-STEM positions."
 Last year, a Georgia Tech researcher analyzed which students took the Advanced Placement exam in computer science in 2013. The researcher, Barbara Ericson, found that in three states no women took it, in eight states no Hispanics did and in 11 states no blacks did. (In Mississippi only one person -- not female, black or Hispanic, by the way -- took the test that year. Oh, Mississippi.)
 The science and engineering (S&E) workforce is composed largely of people who earned S&E degrees over roughly four decades. Because older cohorts of S&E workers are disproportionately white and male, women and minorities constitute a smaller percentage of the overall S&E workforce than of degree recipients who recently joined the workforce.
6

#RSAC
NSF 2015 Study
7

#RSAC
NSF 2015 Study
8

#RSAC
NSF 2015 Study
9

#RSAC
NSF 2015 Study
10

#RSAC
Questions?

