DATASHEET
OneTrust Vendorpedia Assessments
CLARITY AT EVERY STAGE OF THE VENDOR ENGAGEMENT LIFECYCLE, FROM ONBOARDING TO OFFBOARDING
Complexities Arise as Vendor Risk Management Becomes a Board-Level Concern
Increasing reliance on third parties, more data breaches, as well as new standards, frameworks, and regulations make vendor risk management a board-level concern. Still, companies around the world are experiencing similar challenges when identifying and assessing new vendors, suppliers, and third parties. From afar, the assessment process sounds simple: send and receive. Yet, third-party risk teams encounter many complexities along the way, including: scaling and automating workflows; getting vendors to respond to assessments; organizing a vendor inventory; pinpointing risks and associated controls; addressing issues and tracking mitigation; managing contracts; collaborating with stakeholders (procurement, security, privacy, and others); and monitoring vendors as new risks and compliance issues arise.
Scaling Vendor Risk Assessments with Automation and Intelligence
OneTrust Vendorpedia Assessments enables custom workflow creation to manage vendor engagements from onboarding to offboarding. With support for NIST, ISO, CSA CAIQ, SIG, VSAQ, HIPAA, PCI DSS, NYDFS, GDPR, EBA, CCPA and many more, OneTrust Vendorpedia helps you assess any type of third party, using any standard, to discover, remediate, and monitor granular risks.

FASTER ASSESSMENTS
Leverage aggregated research for due diligence, create repeatable workflows that increase collaboration, and enhance
visibility with detailed vendor profiles

GRANULAR REPORTING
Auto-draw lineage diagrams to map data flows, generate dashboards for executive visibility, and centralize granular vendor
details to create audit-ready reports

INTELLIGENT RISK ANALYSIS
Use intelligence from OneTrust DataGuidance to analyze risks, build treatment plans,
and automate actions for rapid mitigation

OneTrust Vendorpedia Assessments
CLARITY AT EVERY STAGE OF THE VENDOR ENGAGEMENT LIFECYCLE, FROM ONBOARDING TO OFFBOARDING
Faster Assessments, Easier Onboarding, Less Work
Choose from dozens of built-in templates or import your own questionnaire. Move vendors rapidly through due diligence and onboard the technologies your team requires to succeed in less time. Create repeatable processes that eliminate bottlenecks and streamline assessment completion. Reduce your team's reliance on spreadsheets and centralize work with purpose-built software, and build vendor profiles with roll-up risks, simplifying reporting for executives and auditors.
Assess Vendor Risks with Confidence
With dozens of out-of-the-box assessment templates, an easy drag-and-drop questionnaire builder, and automated controls identification, you can rapidly evaluate how much risk a vendor poses, and take appropriate mitigation actions.
Flexible Reporting with Vendor Profiles, Visual Dashboards, and Drill-Down Detail
Generate executive-level PDF reports to display the health of your third-party risk program. Create regulator-ready risk reports to streamline audits and demonstrate compliance. Auto-draw lineage diagrams to illustrate the flow of data and the systems involved. Export reports to PDF, CSV, or Excel for easy sharing with executives, auditors, or regulators. Integrate with business intelligence tools to identify trends and extract greater detail from data.
Gain 360° Vendor Visibility
Every vendor is different, and with customizable vendor profiles you can centralize all relevant information in one place to build an organized vendor inventory that surfaces the data you care about most.
Centralize Vendor Risks for Streamlined Mitigation
Adapt assessment questions and adjust risk scores, as well as customize workflows to fit your internal use cases. Leverage built-in frameworks to auto-assign controls (or lack thereof) to vendor risks. Track risks over time and implement a risk treatment plan for systematic mitigation. Apply exceptions and compensating controls to risks to streamline vendor onboarding. Add business context to risks by mapping processing activities to truly understand vendor usage.
Collaborate More Effectively
The vendor lifecycle involves many stakeholders. Create repeatable processes that align to goals across teams with tailored workflows, auto-assigned tasks, scheduled reminders, and comments & notifications.
START A FREE TRIAL OR REQUEST A DEMO AT VENDORPEDIA.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | SAN FRANCISCO MELBOURNE | NEW YORK | MUNICH | HONG KONG
OneTrust VendorpediaTM is the largest and most widely used technology platform to operationalize third party risk, security, and privacy management. More than
3,000 customers use OneTrust, which offers the most depth and breadth of any third-party risk, security, and privacy solution. To learn more, visit vendorpedia.com.
Copyright © 2019 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

