SANS FLEXI PASS
Train, Play & Certify ­ The Best Cybersecurity Training Experience You asked, we listened. Complete flexibility and training guarantee in uncertain times.

Our mission is to empower current and future cybersecurity practitioners with training, education, certifications, and resources to create a safer global community. In challenging and uncertain times like these, we want to do our best to help and support.
That is why SANS is introducing the Flexi-Pass. This Pass offers full flexibility and a SANS training guarantee by offering "Full-access" to our different training formats PLUS a GIAC certification attempt and NetWars Continuous access. 3 ways to train, 1 chance to certify, 8 months to play - all for the price of 1 training course!

SANS Flexi-Pass

What does the SANS Flexi-Pass offer?
It allows you to study one selected course across all three SANS training modalities:

++++

SANS OnDemand (8 months)

SANS Live Online

SANS Live In-Person Training

Includes one complimentary GIAC Certification attempt

Includes complimentary NetWars Continuous access (8 months)

Receive electronic courseware along with your OnDemand access and printed courseware with your GIAC Certification attempt

The Complete SANS training experience
The SANS Flexi-Pass provides you with the ability to take your SANS course whenever and wherever you want. At the same time, the pass ensures you get the most well rounded training experience by including the GIAC certification attempt and the challenging, hands-on learning experience of NetWars Continuous. Get the complete SANS Training Experience for only 7,519 USD.

"SANS training never fails to impress. Instructors who are in the trenches sharing current data, tools, and techniques, bring such value to these courses." ­ Jessie Prevost, Trend Micro

"I'm really happy with the interaction with the other students. This is my first Live Online course and I'm surprised at the proactive engagement of the students. I would have thought that you could only get that type of involvement from on-site/in-person course instruction." ­ Sean Ayers, UPS
The SANS Flexi-Pass offering in more detail
SANS Live Online Experience all the features you love about classroom-based training, without the need to travel. Virtual instructor-led training over 1, 2, 3 or 6 weeks with courses available across multiple time zones to meet anyone's new work-from-home schedule. Students can access all of the same content, get real-time instructor guidance, peer to peer interaction, attend bonus sessions and get the same learning results that you would receive from in-person training.
SANS OnDemand OnDemand offers you the flexibility to learn 24/7 anytime, anywhere. Get EIGHT months extended access to your OnDemand course, quizzes and labs, double the usual amount of time to let you revisit material and master your skills. More than 45 of SANS most popular cybersecurity courses are available through OnDemand, our proprietary online training platform.
SANS Live In-Person training We're all looking forward to the moment we can go back to class! SANS is scheduling several new In-Person training events as of September 1st throughout Europe, the United Kingdom and the Middle East. The Flexi-Pass also offers the choice to take your course at a SANS In-Person Training event. (Please note that due to Covid-19 restrictions, these events are subject to change)
GIAC Certification We help you train and certify! GIAC offers over 30 cybersecurity certifications in all of the disciplines SANS offers training for. Each GIAC certification is designed to stand on its own, and represents a certified individual's mastery of a particular set of knowledge and skills.
NetWars Continuous Offering over 150 cybersecurity challenges spanning five levels, NetWars Continuous helps you master the latest skills and technologies. Take the skills you learnt in your SANS course and apply them directly in these hands-on challenges. With an extended EIGHT months of access to this cyber range, you will continuously learn new things as you progress.
"Having participated in NetWars Continuous and then in the NetWars Tournament, I can honestly say that they were the most intellectually challenging and enjoyable tests of technical skills in which I have had the privilege to participate." ­ Kees Leune, Adelphi University

How does SANS Flexi-Pass compare to SANS separate training modalities?

SANS Online Training Options
Taught by an Unparalleled Faculty of Information Security Leaders All Required Supporting Materials, Media, and Exercises Access to Flexible, Self-Paced training platform Live Instructor-led training Access to Bonus Sessions and NetWars Tournaments Complimentary GIAC Certification Attempt Integrated Quizzes to Reinforce Learning GIAC Certified Subject-Matter-Expert Support via Live Chat and Email Real-Time Access to Instructors Hands-On Virtual Labs to help prepare you for your GIAC Exam Archived Live Course Recordings No Travel Costs Minimal impact on Your Normal Routine Flexible and Effective SANS Training From Your Own Computer Focused immersive training learning without distractions Access to NetWars Continuous

OnDemand
 
4 months
 
4 months
  

Live Online
 
 

During your course 4 Months
   

Live Event
   
During your course



FLEXI PASS
Flexi-Pass
 
8 months
     
During your course + OnDemand Study
4 Months
Only when attending Live event
  
8 Months

SANS FLEXI PASS
How to use the SANS Flexi-Pass
Interested in taking SANS training and using the SANS Flexi-Pass? Here's what you do. · Go to sans.org/flexi-pass · Choose any of the eligible SANS courses on the Flexi-Pass landing page (over 35 courses to choose from) · Go to "Register Now" · Fill out the Registration form · Proceed to check-out
We will stay in touch over the course of the next months to see how you are progressing. And if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to us.

Contact us
If you would like to know more or speak to a SANS
representative, please reach out to us:

asiapacific@sans.org

Singapore: +65 8612 5278 ANZ: +61 2 6174 4581 India: +91 9741900324

