THREAT REPORT EXCERPT

RSA FRAUDACTIONTM INTELLIGENCE
TODAY'S CYBERCRIME LANDSCAPE

INTRODUCTION
Cybercriminals are known to thrive in times of crisis and major events, and today is no exception. In fact, never before has the ground been more fertile for social engineering attacks, preying on every emotion and circumstance.
RSA FraudActionTM analysts and researchers analyze a wide range of cyber attacks including phishing, Trojans and rogue apps. The team also monitors fraud forums and hacking forums on the darknet, underground marketplaces, open-web sources and fraud groups in social media.
The following is a short excerpt from a full report provided to RSA FraudAction customers on the current cybercrime landscape.

RSA FraudAction is a single, external threat management service that offers attack takedown and cyber intelligence.
LEARN MORE

THE CYBERCRIME COMMUNITY
Our researchers have observed that the underground community is very organized in their communication and preparation for the new reality dictated by the global pandemic and resulting disruptions.

Figure 1: Underground marketplace publishes implications, warnings and guidelines in light of COVID-19

SUSCEPTIBLE VERTICALS
Medical and government institutions are major actors during these challenging times, and the public has become accustomed to frequent contact from these authorities. It is not surprising that these sectors have been heavily targeted in recent campaigns spreading cyber attacks. Several attacks of this nature were discovered by RSA FraudAction analysts.

Figure 2: Smishing attack impersonating HMRC

Figure 3: Russian-speaking underground forum-- "Coronavirus Map" malware advert

MALWARE AT ITS PEAK
Various malicious coronavirus maps have emerged, and while they do provide reliable information, they also infect end users with malware. Rogue apps are also being used to plant malware on victims' devices. The team has uncovered multiple examples of mobile malware hidden in what appear to be apps for coronavirus tracking.
RSA FRAUDACTIONTM INTELLIGENCE | 2

A HUMAN LOOK INTO THE CYBERCRIME LANDSCAPE
Our researchers have come across countless threads in fraud venues with information, live updates, measures on how to keep safe, discussions, questions about the nature of the virus, thoughts, worries and more.
Figure 4: Fraud forum--informative thread about COVID-19 providing an overview of the current situation
CONCLUSION
Global trends and events not only impact our personal and work lives but also significantly shape the cybercrime landscape. Cybercriminals have adapted quickly to the new reality, not only capitalizing on it but also sharing recommendations, guidelines and knowledge within their communities. While the attack schemes themselves have not changed, the circumstances have. The exponential increase in digital traffic, including users less accustomed to online activity, significantly enhances susceptibility. Want more? Contact us to discover the benefits of RSA FraudAction, including access to full reports on the latest online threats and fraud trends. For current customers, please reach out to FAS.Customer.Ops@rsa.com to request the full report. RSA® Fraud & Risk Intelligence Suite enables organizations to manage risk across consumer-facing digital channels, allowing them to maximize revenues and minimize fraud losses. The suite is part of the RSA portfolio of business-driven security solutions, which provides a unified approach to managing digital risk that hinges on integrated visibility, automated insights and coordinated actions. RSA protects millions of users around the world and helps more than 90 percent of the Fortune 500 companies thrive and continuously adapt to transformational change. For more information, go to rsa.com.
©2020 Dell Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. RSA and the RSA logo, are registered trademarks or trademarks of Dell Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. RSA believes the information in this document is accurate. The information is subject to change without notice. 6/20 Data Sheet, H18345 W371585.

