Rethinking the Front Lines
or... Hacking the Enterprise Social Engineering Your Company's Culture Culture Hacking for fun and profit

Streetlight Effect

Problem
 Look at the headlines (um,Twitter timeline!)  Lost laptops  Bad passwords  Password reuse  We tend to focus on the glamorous attacks  We're so tools focused we forget the humans  Security professionals have given up. Sometimes
silently, sometimes explicitly

The Debate
 Wait, there's a debate?  Bruce Schneier's article
 Analogies to exercise, infectious diseases, driving, washing hands
 Dave Aitel's article  RSA panel "debate"  Us vs.Them attitude

What's in a name?
 What is "security awareness training"?  My friend's awesome training experience
 What are the goals?  Nirvana fallacy  Shift the balance. Small changes can really add up.

Habits

Hint
Bruce Schneier: "If we security engineers do our job right, then users will get their awareness training informally and organically from their colleagues and friends."

Culture

Twitter Culture
 More new people than old people  Growing out of the good culture; microcultures  Keeping the good stuff  Twitter Core Values
 "Grow our business in a way that makes us proud"
 "Innovate through experimentation"

More debates?!
 Culture Eats Strategy For Lunch by Shawn Parr in FastCompany  Culture is a balanced blend of human psychology, attitudes, actions, and beliefs that combined create either pleasure or pain, serious momentum or miserable stagnation. A strong culture flourishes with a clear set of values and norms that actively guide the way a company operates.

Other views
 Reply by Venkatesh Rao on his blog  But the lesson here isn't that "culture eats
strategy for lunch." The lesson is that culture is what allows you to double down on a successful strategy.You still need the noncultural parts of strategy to create an opening.You will not be able to double down on all openings.
 Not hard to find other opinions on the matter

Being Rigorous
 Is training never effective? Or does the material suck? (Or maybe the trainer??)
 How are we measuring effectiveness? (Is anyone really measuring?)
 Can we measure culture? Or what would be a good proxy?

Goals
 Find a population to study  Determine what to study  Build feedback loop

Choosing the Population
 Lots of work going on, too much to manage all at once
 Segment by department? Geography? Something else?

New Hires
 We selected new hires for a few reasons:  They have to show up for their first day of
work. I have a captive audience.
 They are eager and impressionable.They are more likely to do what I say on that day than before they get caught up in their hectic work.
 Over time they will represent a cross section of the company
 We can track them during their entire company career

Who Presents?
 Does it matter?  I do (when I'm not presenting at conferences)  Signals to new hires that this is important, and I'm
willing to make the time to do it
 How to measure the value?

Password Nightmares
 Thank goodness they'll all be gone soon!  Requirements and enforcements  Good passwords: Not just a problem for regular
users. Security pros too.

#prostyle Strategies
 Common  Hard to remember string, modified by
something in the site I'm visiting
 reused "low-value" password  Not as common
 xkcd passphrases  password managers

Password Managers
 Passwords may be going away, but a bunch are still around
 Create, use, manage strong passwords  What do users really do? Not what security teams
hope, assume they do.
 Does anyone teach users to use one? (not Tell)  It took me a while to get into the swing of using
one

Phishing Strategy
 Common phishing strategy:  phish employees  wait  phish them again  hope the numbers get smaller
 Anti-bodies!  Can we do better?

Goals
 Cross correlate: Lost assets, password manager, phishability, and other factors
 Baseline data  Study subjects over time, not just between two
phishing campaigns
 Run multiple campaigns  Get feedback loops going besides just phishing  Weave in culture of security

Feedback Loops

Suspicious Events
 Phishing alert mailing list  We try to answer them all (reward)  We track:
 suspicious but harmless  real attacks  spam  training (us)

Office Hours
 Come talk about anything (even non-security topics)
 Ask "dumb" questions (that aren't so dumb after all)
 Building rapport  Confessions

Some Results

Password Vault Usage

Password Vault - Early in program

Password Vault - Later in program

Burnout
Password Vault - Some burnout in the first few weeks after they start, but if they survive, they become long term users

Password Vault - hot spots

Password Vault - Low adoption rate for Dept C
Lesson:Work to find out what's happening in the field. Uptick is us identifying and doing a breakout training.

Phishing

Phishing Campaigns

Phishing - ID hot spots
We take the raw numbers, by department, who
engaged with the campaign:
And we learn which departments are most likely
to click on phishy links:

Phishing - ID hot spots
We take the raw numbers, by department, who gave up
credentials:
And we learn which departments are most likely
to give up credentials:

Phishing - Gender Differences

Feedback
We encourage our employees to report phishing attempts, and we track our response rate.

NHO Training Evolution
 Require users to change their passwords during the training session, using a password manager  People loved it if they stuck with it
 Solicit information from the new hires about their knowledge of social engineering attacks, phishing, etc.
 More interactive  Audience management

Areas for more research
 Blink response  Measuring effectiveness of social engineering video  More gamification  Personal/team security scores  Measuring by other factors like years in industry,
first language, other cultural differences.

Lessons
 Track what changed in the NHO classes, slides  Be careful of telling just one Story based on the
Data
 Be prepared to be surprised, and sometimes confused
 Focusing on humans/culture isn't just for pen testing

Conclusion
 Some successes, a lot of new questions  Focus on building Culture, not Training  Measure, change, repeat. It works!  Never give up on users. It's never a lost cause until
you believe it is.

Look for the problems where they are, not where the light is

Thank You!
@boblord

