SESSION ID: IDY-R01
Scaling IAM Rules with ML-Based Risk Analytics? You Don't Need to Be a Ninja

Alex Zaslavsky
Senior Principal Data Scientist RSA

Sudarsan Kannan
Consultant Manager RSA

#RSAC

#RSAC
"No one does Security well"
2

#RSAC
"No one does
Identity-Risk Analytics
Security well"
3

#RSAC
Too many parameters...
4

#RSAC
We all want to grow at different paces!
5

#RSAC
Your access control policies...Well

Black list/whitelist

AD attribute based

Contextual/Dy namic rules

it's Complicated
6

#RSAC
Rules are great for protecting your Identities!

Rules Engine

Identity Risk Analytics

 Well defined requirements  Need to meet strict industry
regulations or stronger
compliance  Raw data (facts)  Ex: If (IP address = 192.168.x.x)
Then do Y

 Complex correlation of multiple inputs to make identity decisions
 Gives insights/tells a story/provides visibility on user's access patterns
 Managing rules becomes more complex as more facts (raw data) leading to policy ineffectiveness
 Ex: If (IP_Type = Office) Then do Y. Office classification is done by the analytics engine
7

Risk Analytics can complement Rules in protecting those #RSAC identities
Use Risk Analytics for the UNKNOWN and rules for the KNOWN
8

What may be your resistance in adopting Identity Risk #RSAC Analytics?
Does implementing ML-Analytics driven decisions suit for your identity needs?
Are you waiting to make a good security decision until some compelling event happens?
Does your IAM team have the people and process layers to benefit from the decisions made by ML-Analytics?
9

#RSAC
Master the invisibility ­ Your mental model

#RSAC
Build your mental model to get past initial resistance

Establish your business and security
OBJECTIVES
· Improve end-user experience
· Measure access policy effectiveness
· Manage security attacks

Take control of your state (The PRESENT)
· Understand your access policies and business drivers
· Where does your data reside?
· Who are your users?
11

Understand your people, process &
technology CONSTRAINTS
· Skill sets / expertise · Cost · Time required to support
and achieve your business and security goals

#RSAC
What is your compelling event?

Type A - DNA

Typical Characteristics

User Experience
Eliminate Passwords

Productivity

· Experienced less impactful breaches
· Lesser dependency on end-user data that needs to be protected
· Basic compliance · More focused on reducing
cost · Single IT team managing all
security use-cases

12

#RSAC
What is your compelling event?

Type B - DNA

Typical Characteristics

Mitigate Attacks Regulations

Security Policies

· Heavily regulated and compliance
is in their DNA · Lot of business impacting critical
data (ex: financial) · Constantly under attacks · Dedicated security teams. · CRO/CISO have bigger role

13

Define identity specific use-cases that needs to be

#RSAC

addressed through dynamic rules

Use cases ­ A sample

1

2

3

Initial Access
· Authentication velocity · Ground speed · Time of access · Looking for type of
device and device statistics

Privilege Escalation
· Looking at peer admin activity
· Application access rate

Lateral Movement
· Correlate ground speed identity
· Understand application access rate
· Device access rate

Detection Techniques

14

Bring your ML vision to life and mature it

· Unified decisions across apps

· More apps and rules · Sharing of intelligence

3

· Continuous risk assessment of access patters

· Use Contextual policies · Continue to add rules · Analyze the data/insights · Measure policy effectiveness
1

2
· Data explosion · Cloud transformation · Third party identities · Technology shift

15

#RSAC
4
Build / Vendor partnership
· Development expertise · Data Science skills · Security team dynamics · Timeline objectives · Financial backing

Should I be thinking about UEBA?

1 Understand the commonalities
2  How do your IAM and security teams interact?
 How much of correlation and depth do you need?  Looking for broader insights and investigation
power?  How much of manpower do you need to expend?  Do you need continuous improvement of IAM
policies?
3 Where can you complement?
· Helps make decisions at the moment of access due to being inline to user flow
· Focusses more on access control objectives Learns near real time due to real time feedback
· Helps you make quicker IAM policy decisions/changes
16

START WITH YOUR PROBLEM DEFINE EXPECTED OUTCOME MAP OUTCOME TO PROBLEM

#RSAC

#RSAC
How to take control over classical natural elements?

Data is your 6th classical element. Master your data to #RSAC rule
Type of protocols supported by each application How real-time is data generated
Types of identities (employees, partners, 3rd party, consumers) Geographical distribution of your identities Mobile versus static endpoints Data generated by machines versus users
Number of identities (users, devices, applications) Attributes of those identities Traffic generated per identity
18

#RSAC
How the wheels operate inside? (Models)

· Common/un-common

· Supervised - Manual or automated

behavior based on

feedback

clustering of events

· Un-supervised - More hunting

· Alert on Anomaly

Challenges in defining good/bad

· Different options to detect

anomalous behavior

Anomaly detection

Supervised / Unsupervised

Rules based

KEY QUESTIONS
1. Single Model Vs multiple Mini models
2. Establish KPI and map it to your objectives
3. Updates to models ­ How flexible are each models to updates? How important is it to your objective?
· No feedback · Best aligned more towards TTPs · Each rule can be mapped to a
anomaly detection model

19

Model fitting and Interpretability
Interpretability
 Why was the user activity defined as common / uncommon?
 Ability to explain decisions that can be actionable
 Will the engine alert the right things?
Model Fitting
 Number of events the model is trained/verified
 How much of real business data are you using? What is your data variety?
 How does a trained model adapt to different data set?
20

#RSAC

#RSAC
The practice of adaptation ­ Evolve to your environment

#RSAC
How do I adapt the models to my environment?

What does it mean?

Functional-Specific
Testing functional aspects
Development is required for technical outcomes

Factors that leads to success

Logical-Flow
Testing the business process outcome Understand the impact of not testing the logical flow
· Have a sandbox environment · Behavioral
- Lesser users - More historical context · Non-behavioral - Less historical context - More users · Volume of data · Time to learn

22

#RSAC
Your adaptation lifecycle map to succeed

Design & Simulation
· Think about rule-based vs learning models
· Simulation with varying models. · Types of features to test · Techniques to test the models
behavior to expected security/ business goals · Acceptable performance (ex: false positive rates) · Type of applications/endpoints
Support and feedback
· How many alerts can you handle? · Bi-directional data exchange with SOC · What-if analysis · Self-service capabilities

Staging Test
· What should be my data? · Understand learning period (enable
learning period before the test) · Be aware of the process and restrictions · Understand the roll out schedule and
impact on the model outcome · What should be the user behavior
(positive or negative behavior) · Prepare and educate the user
Deploy
· Define stages of user onboarding/enrollment
· Understand implications of user onboarding model

23

#RSAC
Finally...make your choices actionable

 Why a decision was made?  Ability to provide interpretation and
explanation  Helps in analyzing and reducing false
positives

 Historical data on users, devices, locations, applications
 Insights on why an user or device is deemed as risky
 Helps you educate users and enable the right processes

24

Your ARE not ALONE. Start using existing meaningful #RSAC data to make your decisions smarter

 PRIORITIZE and IMPROVE selective policies/rules based on

identity risk analytics insights

P

 (ex: ) changing policies for a specific user population based on insights. Something is missing in your policies

R

 REMEMBER you have policies/rules in other places in your security

I

stack. START sharing bi-directional insights/alerts from those security systems to build 360 degree view of identity (Time to think

S

about orchestration API's?).

M

 MANAGE your false positives when using external threat intelligence and insights/alerts from those system. Understand the

differences between descriptive contextual data (ex: device status),

pure threat intelligence (ex: bad IP addresses) and actual alerts that

are correlated alrea2d5y

#RSAC
Operational framework
What to do next?

Apply the Operational Framework

Blocks to capture and utilize existing capabilities while planning to address future problem

Build or Vendor
Plan for growth drivers

Rules based policies
Business & IAM Objectives
People, Process Support

ML driven policies
Productivi ty +
Security

27

#RSAC
Technical Success factors to achieve sustainable results while scaling your IAM decisions using analytics
Key business enablers and decisions to drive your identity analytics program

#RSAC
What should be my next set of actions?
Immediate
IAM Admin · Inventory the access rules that you manage

IAM Architect / Manager
CISO / IAM Head

· Measure whether your access rules are solving or complicating your management and architecture
· Gather recommendations and options based on insights developed by the IAM team

28

#RSAC
What should be my next set of actions?

3 months

IAM Admin

· Do your existing rules meet security controls? · Understanding your workforce behavior and the required data set

IAM Architect / Manager

· Assess capabilities of existing identity tools · Do I need more visibility and insights to drive a better IAM program? · Evaluate if identity analytics is a way to address the requirements

CISO / IAM Head

· Do I need to improve my team member experience and end-user productivity?

29

#RSAC
What should be my next set of actions?
6 months

IAM Admin

IAM Architect / Manager
CISO / IAM Head

· Do you have the people/process to support identity analytics program?
· Establish KPIs for identity analytics driven insights
· How do I enable my IAM team to share identity analytics insights across other security teams and vice versa to manage risk and mitigate overall risk surface?

30

#RSAC
We are eager to learn more. Do you need to share and learn?
Contact Sudarsan.Kannan[at]Dell.com Alex.Zaslavsky[at]Dell.com

#RSAC
Q&A

