TACTICAL APPROACHES VS.

SELF ORGANIZED SWARMBOTS

Derek Manky

Chief, Security Insights - Fortinet

1986: Craig Reynolds Creates Boids AI Sim
 Worked on Disney's 1982 Tron scene programming  Artificial Life Simulation Program (1986)  Program follows three simple rules
 Collision Avoidance  Velocity Matching  Flock Centering Rules
 Used in computer modeling for video games, eg. 1998 Half-Life flying birds
 2014: Algorithm adopted for autonomous deployment of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs)  Aims for collision free, autonomous surveillance system

Original 1986 BOID Life Simulation Model

1989: Swarm Intelligence is Coined

DR. GERARDO BENI
Distinguished Technical Staff Member,
AT&T Bell Labs 1983

 Dr. Gerardo Beni & Jing Wang (1989) coined the term at NATO Advanced Workshop on Robots & Biological Systems
 Member of Editorial Board "Swarm Intelligence"
 1993: From Swarm Intelligence to Swarm Robotics
· Paper on Swarm Intelligence in Cellular Robotic Systems (Beni)
 Self Organized Systems Research Groups now Exist

Ant Colony Optimization
Form of Swarm Intelligence

 Shortest Path Between Nest and Food  Traveling Salesman Problem  Nodes lay synthetic pheromones along
edges of their paths  History
· 1959: Stigmergy theory invented, behavior of nest building in termites
· 1989: Ant Colony Optimization algorithm is born · Food behavior model implemented
· 1994: British Telecommunications Plc publishes first application of ACO to telecommunication networks
 Applications include emergency vehicle response systems, planning & logistics, microchip manufacturing

Ant Colony Optimization
Pheromones Laid for Optimal Path in Maze

Software Examples: Swarm Robotics

Self Organizing Systems Research Group

Kilobots: Headless swarm, no leaders

Follow solutions based Work by communication

approach

through peer nodes

SWARM IN CYBER SECURITY
ACCELERATING THE ATTACK CHAIN

Botnet Building Blocks
Typical Botnet Components

Attacker (botmaster, herder)

C&C Server

Zombies

Victim / target

Communications channels

Initiate Attack

Attack Traffic

Attacker

Control Server

Botnet Attach Nodes

Victim

Blackhat Swarms ­ Removing the C2

Next Generation Botnet 3.0: Swarm
What if Botnets could utilize swarm intelligence?  Largely Accelerated Attack Chain  Human Out of Loop  Strengthened Blackhat Hive

Satori Botnet example
 If camera is hacked or under stress it skips the system if better targets are found (pheromones)

Attack Traffic

Botnet Attach Nodes

Victim

Hide and Seek

2) Target is identified by swarm

3) Target is swarmed, penetrated

4) File information (IP, etc)

leaked

through

swar'ms'

+'e'p+ath

`m<dataI'P:PORYT<data>'

1) Seed the Swarm (Autosploit)

Intent Based Solutions: Swarm Networks

Mar 2018: Canonical ES Exploits Q*Bert

Intent Based AI: Get More Points

Q*Bert Designer Never Observed This Before

Swarm Attacks Will Follow This Path

Mar 2018: Canonical ES Exploits Q*Bert

Mar 2018: Canonical ES Exploits Q*Bert

Protect. Disrupt. Elevate.
For more information on becoming a CTA member, reach out to: newmember@cyberthreatalliance.o rg

Michael J. Daniel ­ CEO & President
Board of Directors - Founding Members

Martin Roesch

Ken Xie

Chris Young

Mark McLaughlin

Greg Clark

Who We Are
Our members are leading cybersecurity providers from around the world, representing many different approaches and points of view.
Charter Members
Affiliate Members
Contributing Members

ABOUT CTA

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

16

CTA's Strategic Objectives
Mission Statement: CTA is a not-for-profit organization that is working to improve the cybersecurity of our global digital ecosystem by enabling near real-time, high-quality cyber threat information sharing among companies and organizations in the cybersecurity field.

Protect End-Users
Our automated platform empowers members to share, validate, and deploy actionable
threat intelligence to their customers in near-real time.
ABOUT CTA

Disrupt Malicious
Actors
We share threat intelligence to reduce the effectiveness of malicious actors' tools and infrastructure.

Elevate Overall
Security
We share intelligence to improve our members' abilities to respond to cyber incidents
and increase end-users' resilience.

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

17

What Makes CTA Unique
The CTA Model
The CTA solution employs technology, incentives, and business rules to differentiate from traditional models. CTA's automated information sharing process enables members to share high volumes of data with context at machine speed.

THE CTA SOLUTION

 An automated information sharing platform that enables members to share more types of data, at higher volumes, more quickly

 A scoring algorithm that assigns points for



submitting an indicator, providing context, and

mutual validation of other members' submissions 

 The scoring algorithm is designed to be equitable

for all members and is regularly reviewed and

updated based on information sharing trends 

 Members are required to submit a minimum value

of 10,000 points per day each day to prevent the

free-rider problem prevalent in other information

sharing organizations

OUR SHARING PROCESS
Step 1: Members enter linked intelligence into their local client using the API or web interface.
Step2: STIX formatted data transferred to central hub over TAXII/HTTPS.
Step 3: STIX package scored according to algorithm. Individual STIX elements stored in database back-end.
Step 4: Member systems poll central hub for new data, and sync the available information with their local database where it can be extracted and used.

ABOUT CTA

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

18

Automated Sharing
Data Inputs
CTA's sharing process requires members to submit intelligence packages into a common format, runs it through a scoring algorithm, and enables members to extract the data most useful to them.

Platform Sharing Metrics

65,000 85% 1.5M

Average total packages per day shared across all members
Average percentage of packages with at least one observable, kill chain phase, and additional context / linked intelligence Average total points per day across all members

Data Sharing
STIX Packages include a range of observables and TTPs across the kill
chain Observables: Files, URIs, Domain Names,
and Addresses TTPs: Over 50 TTPs from Mitre's CAPEC
and ATT&CK frameworks

ABOUT CTA

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

19

Protect End-Users
Global Impact
CTA is the industry's first formally organized group of cybersecurity practitioners that work together in good faith to share threat information and improve global defenses against advanced cyber adversaries; ultimately, protecting customers in real-time.

ABOUT CTA

CTA SHARED PLATFORM

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

20

Disrupt Malicious Actors
Sharing information to enable more rapid deployment of protections
CTA enables members to share sensitive information on malicious activity, allowing members to bring together analytic insights on the activity, protect their customers as quickly as possible, and systematically disrupt adversary activity.
VPNFilter : CTA IN ACTION

Cisco shared malware samples and analytic
findings

CTA members used this information to develop protections

CTA members published their own findings and analysis, amplifying Cisco's
messaging

Members continue to collaborate through CTA, providing a forum for sharing new insights

ABOUT CTA

CYBER THREAT ALLIANCE

21

FLASH WAR: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
CONFIDENTIAL

THANKS

