#RSAC
SESSION ID: HUM-M02
The Transformation of Post Pandemic Mental Health
Chloé Messdaghi
Chief Impact Officer, Cybrary @ChloeMessdaghi

Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other co-sponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
2

#RSAC
Warning: This talk discusses heavy subjects around mental health, including PTSD and suicide. The National Suicide Prevention Hotline: 800-273-8255

#RSAC
Mental Health in 2021

#RSAC
Mental Health in 2022

https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/70/wr/mm7040e3.htm
11

Mental Health & COVID-19
· Lack of hope, restriction of movement, grief & loss, and unpredictability by the pandemic has increased anxiety and depression
· Suicidal ideation and COVID-19 · Substance use · Post-COVID Stress Disorder (PCSD) has been introduced as a result of
traumatic impact from the pandemic
12

Post-COVID Stress Disorder
· Post Covid Stress Disorder is not a mental disorder listed in the DSM-5, but there are emerging clinical findings that are suggestive of it.
· Information about the impacts, at various levels, of stress from Covid-19 is not completely understood yet, and the body of knowledge is evolving.
· PTSD-like symptoms can occur at the level of individuals and organizations, and can be direct or indirect, and can be long-term.
· There can also be a spectrum of symptoms that may not meet diagnostic criteria of PTSD, but which can still cause significant negative impact to mental health due to Covid-19 and stress.

Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
The APA describes 4 categories of symptoms in PTSD:
· Intrusion · Avoidance · Alterations in cognition and mood · Alterations in arousal and reactivity
https://www.psychiatry.org/patients-families/ptsd/what-is-ptsd

Warning signs of PTSD
Avoiding situations or people Nightmares Flashbacks Changes in mood Easily frustrated
15

Burnout & PTSD
Exposure to trauma or extreme stressor Respond with fear, hopelessness, horror Sleep disturbances and nightmares Depression or withdrawal Mood changes, generalized irritability Avoid activities that promote recall of traumatic event

Is it burnout, or is it something more?
· Burnout can co-occur at the same time with other mental health conditions, and can intensify those other conditions.
· One school of thought is that burnout can be a pre-cursor to depression. · Continue to stay in touch with mental health providers for care, and to keep
daily functioning and safety in mind.
17

Warning signs of burnout
You always feel exhausted Struggle to sleep You suffer from anxiety and depression...suicidal thoughts increase You get sick often Your muscles get tight and sore (not in a good way) Cardiovascular problems increase
18

Depression SymptomMsajor Depressive Disorder

Feeling sad or having a depressed mood

Loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed

Changes in appetite -- weight loss or gain unrelated
to dieting

Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much

Loss of energy or increased fatigue

Increase in purposeless physical activity (e.g., handwringing or pacing) or slowed
movements and speech (actions observable by
others)

Feeling worthless or guilty

Difficulty thinking, concentrating or making
decisions

Thoughts of death or suicide

#RSAC
How are mental health issues formed in the office?

So why are we so burned out or employees have PTSD? Hint: not the amount of work.

This Photo by Unknown Author is licensed under CC BY

21

Top 10 ways organizations create burnout
1. Poor leadership 2. Lack of organization caring 3. Role of other workers 4. Politics & Sabotage 5. Lack of organizational resources 6. Overly emphasis on ROI 7. Work overload 8. Poor communication 9. Unethical/illegal requests 10. No vision or direction by change leaders
22

Burnout descent develops quick in the workplace
Hope

Frustration Anger

On average:
Occurs at the 6-month mark for nonmanagerial roles

Apathy

Occurs at the 1­2-year mark for managerial roles

Burnout

23

Additionally, working in security is 24/7/365. It's impossible to balance personal and work life, which leads to developing mental health issues.

Quick guide to do better.
25

Step 1: Leaders need to face their created toxic environments

Step 2: Accept the new. Employees want to be remote.
27
This Photo by Unknown Author is licensed under CC BY-SA-NC

Step 3: Take some time off.

This Photo by Unknown Author is licensed under CC BY-SA-NC

Step 4: Support mental health by providing
resources and building an environment of psychological safety
29

Building an environment of psychological safety
Professor Amy Edmondson from the Harvard Business School discussed "How To Build Psychological Safety" at a recent Institute of Coaching conference, and described 3 central elements: · Frame the work: Humility · Invite engagement: Curiosity · Respond productively: Empathy Reference tweet from the conference: https://twitter.com/ryanlouie/status/1441805861408673797
30

Step 5: Be Kind and Respect Boundaries.

#RSAC
What if an employee doesn't want support?

How to support someone who doesn't want help
· Always safety first. · If there is danger to self or to other people or if someone is not able to care for themselves, please call
911 to get emergency help. · Understand and know yourself. · Understand and know others. · Understand and know the situation. · Set the boundaries about what can or cannot be done. · Stay in communication, and work with other helpers. · Continue to show compassion and respect.

#RSAC
What about me?

Individual ways to cope
· Take care of mental and physical health · Good eating habits · Reduce self-medication · Sleep routine · Exercise daily · Connect with people · Seek psychotherapy services · Join support groups · Practice mediation
35

5 takeaways
· Look internally and focus on improving the workplace environment. (Toxic executives cause a toxic workplace)
· Listen to your employees and create impactful changes. (Active listening is the key to happiness)
· Allow disconnecting policies to occur. (No contact during off hours) · Support employees' work-personal life balance. (Perhaps trying 4-day work week
model) · Respect boundaries. (Don't forget: You do not own your employees)

Remember:
Biology impacts psychology. Psychology impacts biology.

Thank you for existing!
Let's stay in touch via Twitter & LinkedIn @ChloeMessdaghi Big thank you to Ryan Louie (@ryanlouie) for helping with this presentation!

#RSAC

Resources
· American Psychiatric Association https://www.psychiatry.org
· Centers for Disease Control and Prevention https://www.cdc.gov
39

