#RSAC

SESSION ID: PRV-T09
The Steps to Successfully Baking Privacy into an IAM Implementation

Christine C. Owen
Director Guidehouse Inc cowen@guidehousefederal.com

Jamie M. Danker
Senior Director Venable LLP JMDanker@Venable.com

#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved. ©2022 Guidehouse Inc. All rights reserved. Proprietary and competition sensitive. ©2022 Venable LLP. This presentation is intended as a summary of the issues presented and is not intended to provide legal advice. It is provided for the general information of the attendees. Legal counsel and advice should be sought for any specific questions and before taking any action in reliance on the information presented.
2

Agenda

#RSAC
Our Preparation
Our Recipe
Your Journey Towards a More-Secure, Privacy-Enhanced Network
3

#RSAC
Our Preparation

#RSAC
Current Regulatory Landscape
5

#RSAC
Identity and Privacy Are Key for a Successful Zero Trust Implementation
The Perimeter Is Identity Remote and Biometric Identity Proofing Enhances Identities Phishing-resistant MFA and Contextual Authentication Are Critical Automated Identity Governance Rules Control Access Loss Prevention Protects Data and Privacy
6

#RSAC
Privacy Risk and Organizational Risk

Problem
Arises from data processing

Individual
Experiences direct impact
(e.g., embarrassment, discrimination, economic
loss)

Organization
Resulting impact
(e.g., customer abandonment, noncompliance costs, harm to reputation or internal culture)
Source: NIST
7

#RSAC
Stakeholder Management
8

#RSAC
Our Recipe

Privacy Preserving IAM/ZTA Implementation Recipe
Ingredients:  Stakeholders
 NIST guidance
 Lots of assessments
 Contract clauses
 Extensive testing
 Massive amount of patience
 A sprinkle of grace
Instructions: Assemble stakeholders; identify and categorize your identities, systems, applications and data; conduct a privacy risk assessment and apply mitigations; test and refine and migrate and enjoy. *For an optimal experience, apply NIST Guidance liberally.

#RSAC
10

#RSAC
Our Best Kept Secret Recipe: The NIST Privacy Framework

CORE
IDENTIFY-P GOVERN-P CONTROL-P COMMUNICATE-P PROTECT-P

TARGET

CURRENT

PROFILES
IDENTIFY-P GOVERN-P PROTECT-P
IDENTIFY-P GOVERN-P CONTROL-P COMMUNICATE-P PROTECT-P

*Consider:
 Organizational goals
 Role(s) in the data processing ecosystem or industry sector
 Legal/regulatory requirements & industry best practices
 Organization's risk management priorities
 Privacy needs of individuals
Source: NIST
11

#RSAC
Identify & Categorize

1. All identities within the system,
including NPEs

2. All data within the
system

3. All applications

*Privacy Pro tip: Leverage the NIST Privacy Framework's Inventory and Mapping Category

12

#RSAC
Privacy Pro's Favorite Categories for IAM: Mini Profile

ID-P

Risk Assessment (ID.RA-P)

The organization understands the privacy risks to individuals and how such privacy risks may create follow-on impacts on organizational operations, including mission, functions, other risk management priorities

Inventory and

Data processing by systems, products, or services is understood and informs the management

Mapping (ID.IM-P) of privacy risk.

ID-P

CT-P

CM-P

Disassociated Processing (CT.DM-P)

Data processing solutions increase dissociability consistent with the organization's risk strategy to protect individuals' privacy and enable implementation of privacy principles (e.g., minimization).

Data Processing Individuals and organizations have reliable knowledge about data processing practices and

Awareness (CM.AW- associated privacy risks, and effective mechanisms are used and maintained to increase

P)

predictability consistent with the organization's risk strategy to protect individuals' privacy.

Data Security (PR.DSP)

Data are managed consistent with the organization's risk strategy to protect individuals' privacy and maintain data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

13

PR-P

#RSAC
Research & Prepare

1. Create use cases and requirements

2. Perform market research

3. Conduct pilot to test use cases and
requirements.
Iterate testing.

4. Procure and implement products
throughout the system

*Implementation Pro tip: To learn where the weaknesses are, develop, test, and iterate steps 2 & 3 to find breakage within the system and develop solutions.

14

#RSAC
What Could Possibly Go Wrong?
15

#RSAC
Migrate Users & Apps ­ Enjoy!
16

#RSAC
Your Journey Towards a MoreSecure, Privacy-Enhanced Network

#RSAC
Where to Begin
Schedule a privacy/security meetup next Immediately week to discuss the privacy requirements
for your IAM and Zero Trust integrations
Assess your current IAM posture Short Term
Implement phishing resistant MFA
Apply the recipe and make note of your Long Term own variations; document success and
recipe fails and share with others!
18

#RSAC
Recipe Book Recommendations

NIST SP 800-207

NIST SP 800-63-3

NIST Privacy Framework

19

#RSAC
Thank you! Questions?
20

