#RSAC

SESSION ID: SAT-M01
Drones and Autonomous Vehicles: Privacy and Security vs. Surveillance

Jodi Daniels
CEO and Privacy Consultant Red Clover Advisors, LLC

Justin Daniels
Shareholder Baker Donelson Emerging Technology and Security

#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
The ideas in this presentation are not intended to be legal advice. You should seek competent legal counsel to discuss legal issues specific to your organization.
2

#RSAC
Data Collection by Land and Air
3

#RSAC
Drones and AV's Transforming Our Lives
· Take the Drone Copter from San Francisco to LA
· Smart Highways Reduce Traffic · Shrinking the Carbon Footprint
4

#RSAC
20th Century Innovation

#RSAC
What Can Recent Transformation Teach Us?
6

#RSAC
What Data Is Collected?
Facial Recognition Video Where you went Mapping Geolocation How Fast you Drive
7

#RSAC
What is The Current Regulatory Environment

No Federal laws directly addressing Drone and AV data
collection

Certain state laws prohibit drone use for surveillance or gathering
information on critical infrastructure

Federal autonomous vehicles laws deal with safety but do not
address data collection or cybersecurity

State AV laws deal with licensure and safety on the road but there
are now five states with data privacy laws

Global privacy laws

8

Ethical Considerations
9

#RSAC
What Data Should be Collected?
How is the User informed and consent?
Who can access the Data?
What happens if the data is inaccurate?
Automation: Results are believed even if inaccurate.
How is the data and access being secured?

#RSAC
The Stakes: If Privacy and Security are an Afterthought........
1

#RSAC
Drone and AV Transformation Reimagined
Privacy and Security by Design

#RSAC
Privacy and Security By Design

DATA/PRIVACY
Data collection, use, sensitivity and
privacy laws

SECURITY
Protecting the data, AV/drone platform, and supporting infrastructure

CONTRACT
Allocation of risk and legal requirements

#RSAC
Show Me The Data

What is collected and
how is it used?

Where is it stored?

Who is it shared with?

1

SENSITIVE SECURITY AREAS

#RSAC
Systems that allow threat actor to take control of the AV or drone Flight controls or driving controls Internet connection that allows download of software updates that may have malware 5G infrastructure that also supports cellular communications

#RSAC
Contract Process

Pen tests and vulnerability scans

Data collection, use, sharing and storage definitions

Prohibition of combining collected data with other data to create personal
information.

Privacy policy requirements

Written infosec plan

Super caps for data breaches

Insurance requirements

1

Six Steps to Privacy and Security by Design

Learn and adjust to changing technology

Identify:
1. AV/drone platform and
2. Infrastructure

Determine data collected

Detecting and responding
security issues

Protect the data
Implement contract process

#RSAC
16

#RSAC
How to Incorporate Privacy & Security by Design
Maintain an accurate data inventory including identification of sensitive data Determine if AV or drone video footage needs to be encrypted Identify if 5G network will support drone/AV's in addition to existing uses and have a plan to address potential security issues Ensure all related contracts accurately document privacy and security practices Appoint a stakeholder to create and own the process to quickly adapt to changes in privacy laws and the technology
17

Final Thoughts
Drones and AV will transform our world and to ensure privacy and security are protected we need to .......

#RSAC

Learn from prior
technology

Balance ethics vs. surveillance

Incorporate privacy & security by
design

#RSAC
Justin Daniels
Shareholder, Baker Donelson Atlanta www.bakerdonelson.com jdaniels@bakerdonelson.com
Jodi Daniels
CEO & Privacy Consultant, Red Clover Advisors www.redcloveradvisors.com jodi@redcloveradvisors.com

