#RSAC
SESSION ID: MASH-M06
Ransomware: How One Company Fought Back
Raymond Umerley
Vice President, Chief Information Risk Officer Pitney Bowes Inc.

#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
2

#RSAC
The Attacks

#RSAC
October 2019 ­ Ryuk
4

#RSAC
May 2020 ­ Maze
5

#RSAC
Impacts of the Attacks

Operational Downtime

Data Loss and Exposure

Customer Disruption and Inquiry

Workforce Stress and Disruption

Legal and Regulatory Obligations

Financial Loss

Brand and Reputation

6

#RSAC
Anatomy of the Attacks

Anatomy of a Ransomware Attack

Spam Email Containing
Malicious Document
Elevate Privileges

Trojan Malware Installed
Recon Active Directory

Credential Theft
Move Laterally in Your Network

Exfiltrate Data

Delete Backups

Disable & Security
Protections

Deploy Ransomware

#RSAC
8

#RSAC
Internal Lessons

#RSAC
Lessons on Response and Recovery

Positives
Speed of Response Third Party Security Expertise State of Backups Business Operations and Resilience Communications Enterprise Teaming and Ingenuity

Negatives
Ensuring that "All equals All" Speed and Scale of Recovery Islands of Understanding IT Tools Immobilized Individuals and Teams Overwhelmed Partners Overwhelmed

10

#RSAC
When You Go Home...

#RSAC
Apply What You Have Learned Today
Next week you should:
­ Evaluate your protection, detection, and response capabilities and technologies based on today's discussion ­ Identify your infrastructure crown jewels (e.g., Active Directory) and ensure they are appropriately protected (e.g.,
multifactor authentication, privileged access management, network segmentation, immutable backup storage)
In the first three months following this presentation you should:
­ Ensure that you have an accurate asset inventory of your hardware, software, and data ­ Run scenario-based tabletop exercises involving your crown jewel assets to identify and remediate potential people
and process gaps ­ Update your business continuity and disaster recovery plans to account for a cyber event, and the potential scale of
digital recovery processes and technologies
Within six months you should:
­ Look holistically at cybersecurity people, process, and tool harmonization (1-10-60) ­ Ensure your crisis plans include principles, positions, and processes for transparency and communication to your
customers, employees, law enforcement, and regulators ­ Identify and establish relationships or retainers with the partners and suppliers that can assist you in these events,
including your insurers
12

#RSAC
Questions?
raymond.umerley@pb.com

