#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA® Conference, RSA Security LLC or any other co-sponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Security LLC or its affiliates. All rights reserved. RSA Conference logo, RSA and other trademarks are trademarks of RSA Security LLC or its affiliates.
If applicable, insert your organization's disclaimer statement here, in black (or delete this line)
6

SESSION ID: PRV-R01
The Privacy and Blockchain Paradox

Greg Schu, CPA, CISA, QSA
Partner, Cybersecurity ­ National PCI Compliance Lead
BDO Digital

Jim Amsler, FIP
Director, Governance, Risk & Compliance
BDO USA, LLP @JimAmsler

#RSAC

#RSAC
Agenda
Introduction to Blockchain Technology Privacy and Data Protection Obligations The Privacy Paradox Compliance Considerations for Companies using Blockchain
13

#RSAC
Introduction to Blockchain Technology
History and Implementation of Distributed Ledger Technologies

#RSAC
How did Blockchain Emerge?

ORIGIN
1990s

TRANSACTIONS
2000s

CONTRACTS
Early to mid-2010's

APPLICATIONS
Late 2010's to 2021
15

#RSAC
The Core - Distributed Ledger Technology

Enhanced

Greater

Instant

security transparency traceability

Increased efficiency

Advanced automation

Source: Gartner -- Blockchain Technology: What's Ahead? -- [2019]; EU Science Hub -- Blockchain Now and Tomorrow -- [2019]; IBM -- Top five blockchain benefits transforming your industry -- [2018]; Blockchain Council website; Forbes website; Euromoney website
16

What is Blockchain?

#RSAC
Distributed Ledger
Replicated Across Network Nodes
Extensible
17

#RSAC
Generations of Blockchain Technologies
Block Chain Version 3.0
(State machine + Smart Contracts + Cryptlets)

Blockchain Version 2.0
(State Machine + Smart Contracts)

Block Chain Version 1.0
(Simple State Machine)

18

Blockchain Variants
Public Blockchain
In public blockchains, distributed ledgers are visible to each user on the network. It permits public users to verify and submit new blocks of transactions recorded within the blockchain. Example: cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dash, etc.
Private Blockchain
Private blockchains are usually incorporated within single organizations and only permit invited users to engage in and verify transactions with permissions. Example: Multichain and Blockstack.

Consortium

#RSAC
DBP
Public

Consortium Blockchain
An association of multiple organizations share responsibility for governing and operating the blockchain for a shared purpose (e.g., banks participating in a payment messaging network). Examples: Ripple, R3, and Hyperledger 1.0.

Scalability

Private

Safety

19

#RSAC
Smart Contracts
User-Defined Contracts solving Privacy Challenges
Self-executing contract with terms of the agreement between buyer and seller being written directly into lines of code
20

#RSAC
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations
What is a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), and how do DAO's positively impact privacy?
21

#RSAC
Blockchain Is Not...

Bitcoin
01

100 % Tamper - proof
02

100% Secure
03
22

#RSAC
Privacy and Data Protection Obligations
23

Privacy and Data Protection
Privacy Respect for... Private Life Family Life Home Communications

#RSAC
Data Protection Protection of personal data
Fair processing Specified purposes Consent or lawful grounds Access and rectification

#RSAC
Personal Data

ANY INFORMATION
When does information relate to a person?

RELATING TO

AN IDENTIFIED OR IDENTIFIABLE

What qualifies as information?

What is identity?

When is someone identifiable?

NATURAL PERSON
What is a natural person?

25

#RSAC
Privacy and Data Protection Domains

Privacy and Data Protection Regulations and Frameworks dictate protections and controls corresponding to these principles.

Purpose Limitation

Accuracy

Respect for Individual Rights

Cross-Border transfer protections

Transparent, Fair, and Lawful Processing

Data Minimization

Storage Limitation

Integrity and Confidentiality
26

#RSAC
EU-Specific Rights
Data portability Erasure and right to be forgotten Restriction of processing Right to object Right "not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects ... or similarly significant effects" (Article 22)
27

Controllers and Processors
Data controller
Data protection authority (DPA) Supervisory authority (SA)

#RSAC
Data subject Data processor
28

#RSAC
California Specific Rights
Right to request records Right to erasure Right to opt out of selling
Businesses must implement one or more designated means for submitting requests, including a (at a minimum) a toll-free number. Consumers may not be discriminated against for exercising their rights.
29

"Do Not Sell My Personal Information"
CCPA Section 1798.135 defines specific requirements related to businesses who "sell" personal information to third parties.
The definition of a "sale" of personal information is broadly defined, and ostensibly includes almost any sharing of personal data with third parties. Businesses must:
· Provide a "clear and conspicuous" link on the corporate homepage, titled "Do Not Sell My Personal Information"
· NOT require the creation of an account in order to register this request
· Include a description of consumer's rights and a separate link to the "Do Not Sell My Personal Information" page in the online Privacy Notice and any other description of California-specific privacy rights

#RSAC
30

#RSAC
The Privacy Paradox
31

#RSAC
Privacy and Blockchain

PRO'S Immutable records Instant traceability Decentralized (public) Asymmetric cryptography Self-sovereign identity Off-chain data storage

CON'S Data control Centralized (private) Deletion Privacy compliance Error correction

Individual Rights
· Transparency
· Rights to Rectification, Deletion, Portability, and Limitations on Processing
· Controller / Co-Controller / Processor Relationships
· Blockchain Immutability
· Technology Leads ­ Regulatory Guidance Follows

#RSAC
33

Benefits of Blockchain solutions
Due to its ability to provide transparency, immutability, and decentralized storage of data, applications using blockchain for data security can soon replace existing technologies that provide centralized storage.
Benefits of blockchain for data security
· Trust · Privacy · Integrity · Resiliency

#RSAC

34

#RSAC
Jurisdiction-Specific Considerations
Cross-Border Transfers Anonymization / Pseudonymization Differences Encryption Standards
35

#RSAC
Compliance Considerations
Implementing Blockchain Technologies
36

#RSAC
"Apply" Slide
Privacy Impact Assessments Pilot and Implement against Targeted Use Cases Engage Your Regulators (DPIA) Be Mindful of Cross-Border Transfers Individual Rights "Permissioned" Blockchains can support governance obligations
37

#RSAC
Five considerations for blockchain applied to data privacy and GDPR
When looking at blockchain as a solution to privacy challenges, here are five things to consider which could help us all feel more at ease.
- A technology and a regulation Privacy in a digital world isn't something that can be solved with technology
only. On the technology side, blockchain is making tremendous progress with networks that provide value in areas as varied as food trust, shipping containers, trade finance and international payments. Respecting the privacy of data and transactions is a core tenant for these projects.
Opposite starting points but same underlying principles - Blockchain and GDPR share common principles of
data privacy. Both want to oversee our own digital private data transactions and payments in the case of Bitcoin, or personal data that needs to be shared with others in the case of GDPR.
Privacy in public networks - Privacy doesn't necessarily mean you need a private blockchain network approach, one that requires an invitation or is membership-based. These are privacy-enabling features like those of GDPR.
Right to Erasure - One of the GDPR requirements is the right to erasure when an individual asks an organization that has their personal data to completely remove that data. To comply with GDPR, no personal data should be put on the blockchain directly. Techniques exist to deal with this, which consist of putting a cryptographic hash on the chain or the "evidence" instead of the actual data.
38

#RSAC
Achieving data protection compliance in blockchain projects
Hyperledger Fabric: A permissioned blockchain solution for superior data privacy Permissioned blockchains like Hyperledger Fabric have ensured compliance with core GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) principles concerning privacy, confidentiality and integrity of data and features such as `right to be forgotten'. Here's how:
Consent on data collection and processing - The number of stake holders required for user consent for data processing is more in the permissioned blockchain setting and hence, the level of complexity to ensure compliance has increased. Privacy, confidentiality and integrity - Permissioned blockchains rely on encryption and pseudonymous identities to adhere to GDPR properties such as the unlikability of transactions, anonymity of users, and confidentiality of transactions. Data minimization and purpose limitation - Privacy by Design mandates only and necessary data transaction, which is vital in ensuring data privacy across applications. Permissioned blockchains like Hyperledger Fabric have features that enable `right to be forgotten'. The developers of blockchain projects should therefore carefully analyze the kind of data intended to be stored in the blockchain and weigh up the advantages and disadvantages of the type of blockchain to be used.
39

