#RSAC
SESSION ID: SAT-W02
The Cyber Physical War ­ Lessons From the Digital Front Line
Ian Bramson
Global Head ­ Industrial Cybersecurity ABS Group

#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
2

#RSAC
Industrial Cybersecurity is Hitting a Tipping Point

Ransomware Attacks in 20211,2

105%
increase Worldwide

104%

80%

increase in North America

of organizations were hit by a ransomware attack and more than

60%

of those organizations paid the ransom

Top Ransoms Paid in 2021

May 2021

June 2021

$4.4
Million

$11
Million

$4.4
Million
Recent Attacks to Critical Infrastructure
 Oldsmar Water Treatment
Facility ­ Feb. 2021
 German Fuel Supply
Terminal ­ Feb. 2022
 Ukraine Attacks
­ Feb. and Apr. 2022
 German Wind Turbines
­ Feb. and Mar. 2022

High-Profile Vulnerabilities Discovered in the Last Six Months
 Log4J ­ Dec. 2021  APT Cyber Tools Targeting ICS/SCADA
Devices ­ Apr. 2022
 Pipedream Malware Toolkit
Discovery ­ Apr. 2022
A New Priority for Governments and Trade Associations

UR E26 and UR E27

NIST SP 800-82r3

Cybersecurity Act, Part 5

Pipeline Security Guidelines Update

Operational Technology Executive Orders Cybersecurity Controls (OTCC-1:2022)

3

#RSAC
OT Cybersecurity by the Numbers

Organizations that use OT systems
have experienced some sort of cyber incident in the past year. 3

Organizations with limited visibility in their control systems 4

Organizations that don't have full visibility into their supply chains 5

Organizations that find it difficult to stop cyber attacks in time 6

Increase in ICS vulnerabilities between 2019 and 2020 7

Organizations with control systems at high risk 8

External attacker can penetrate
the ICS networks at 75% success rate 9

Organizations without internal
resources to manage OT/ICS incidents 10

4

#RSAC
Perspectives From the Digital Front Line

#RSAC
I Spoke to the Digital Front Line

Insurers

Suppliers & Vendors

Government

Board Members

Implementors (OT &IT)

Technical

My background
25+ years in strategy and cyber 6+ years focused on industrial cyber for critical infrastructure 100s of conversations and engagements across all audiences 40+ countries
I spoke with
Technical Experts (Analysts, Threat Hunters, Labs) Government (Regulators, State Governments, Standards Orgs) Insurance Companies (Insurers, P&I Clubs, Associations) Supply Chain & Manufacturing (Suppliers, OEMs, Manufacturers) Implementors (CISOs, Plant Managers, Service Providers) Board of Directors (Boards, Analysts, Executives

6

#RSAC

Who we asked
Threat Hunters Managed Service Analysts White-Hat Hackers Cyber Labs

What you need to know
OT is less mature and much more exposed Digitization expanding the attack surface Risk to safety ­ site, public, environment No such thing as "air gapped" Almost no visibility into OT systems OT takes specific expertise
What you need to do
Do the basics ­ Asset inventory, identity management, monitoring, response Know the identities that access OT systems (e.g., suppliers) and how they access them

"I've been able to hack into an industrial site in less than eight minutes... my coffee wasn't even cold."
 White Hat Hacker
"Attacks like Colonial Pipeline might be a warning bell for us, but it's a dinner bell for attackers."
 Cyber Specialist

7

#RSAC

Who we asked
Federal Agencies (CISA, USCG, TSA, DHS)
Sate Governments
International Governments
Standards and Governance Organizations (e.g., IMO, NIST, NERC)

What you need to know
Increase attacks on critical infrastructure has broad impacts on the economy, national security and political stability
Definition of critical infrastructure expanding
Regulations will focus more on monitoring
Compliance does not equal security
Supply chain risk management is key
What you need to do
Go beyond compliance and put in what will make you secure Make sure you have strong monitoring, reporting and response controls in place Look closely at supply chain risk management

"It is the policy of my administration that the prevention, detection, assessment and remediation of cyber incidents is a top priority and essential to national and economic security."
 Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity ­ May 2021

8

#RSAC

Who we asked
Insurance Companies P&I Companies Insurance Associations Insurance Focused Law Firms

What you need to know
Cyber physical events straining insurance and driving costs up Cyber is very hard to underwrite Premiums are going up significantly Underwriting becoming much more stringent Exclusions are important

"It will be harder to qualify for cyber insurance, and the implementation of many common cybersecurity controls will increasingly be required as a condition of coverage."
 Joshua Motta, CEO and co-founder of Coalition

What you need to do
Read the fine print and watch exceptions See how policies interrelate (e.g., suppliers, pollution) Come prepared to underwriting sessions Make insurance part incident response plans
9

#RSAC

Who we asked
Supply Chain and Manufacturing Executives OEMs Technology Providers

What you need to know
Attacks can happen on the supply chain Attacks can happen through the supply chain You inherit the risk of you full supply chain Supply chain resiliency can work against cyber resiliency Most supply chains lack visibility & control

"The pressure on building supply chain resiliency, but we don't think about cyber security when we do that...that could be disastrous."
 Manufacturing Executive

What you need to do
Employ security by design Cyber map your supply chain Consider cyber acceptance testing

10

#RSAC

Who we asked
CIOs
Operation Mangers (e.g., plant, site)
Industrial Cybersecurity Provider (technology and services)

What you need to know
The digital front lines are in their networks Responsible for industrial cyber risk reduction There is often tension between IT and OT IT solutions will not work in an OT environment Technology alone cannot be the solution

"You can't take an IT solution and put it into an OT environment. You might bring the network down."
 Operations Manager

What you need to do
Create a position to lead industrial cyber Make sure to have domain expertise Build a balanced program that covers Assess and Plan, Protect and Defend, Detect and Respond
11

#RSAC

Who we asked
Board Members Executives Who Present to Boards Market Analysts

What you need to know
OT is the core of the business identity and revenue generation Risks are growing exponentially IT is often confused with OT Compliance does not equal security Cyber is important, but there is confusion
What you need to do
Be clear on the Board's priorities and position Present cyber in a business context Be clear on risks and priorities Educate the board and dispel myths

"Boards know cyber is a big problem. Beyond that, there's a lot of confusion."
 Board Member Oil & Gas Industry
"Most of us on the Board don't understand cyber but we do understand business and risk. Speak our language when you present to us."
 Board Member Maritime Company

12

#RSAC
The Future of OT Cyber

#RSAC
Prediction #1: OT cyber will overtake IT as the priority for companies

OT cybersecurity has a direct impact to So what...

"They talk about OT-IT convergence.

1

revenue, operations, safety, brand and

It's not a convergence, it's a hostile

legal exposure

· IT focused companies

takeover."

need to offer OT

services

Increase in attacks on critical

2

infrastructure is shifting the focus to

· CISO roles need to

OT

evolve to fully

~ CISO

address OT

"The OT cyber company is covering

3

Companies don't want two programs and recognize OT as the more specialized field

· OT will be the priority at board discussions and key to getting funding

our crown jewels in operations. We don't want two companies covering cyber, so we are asking them to

cover both."

Companies are asking OT cyber

4

managed services to also provide their

IT cybersecurity

~ Senior Executive, Power & Energy

14

#RSAC
Prediction #2: Companies will buy services, not technologies

THE GLOBAL INDUSTRIAL CYBERSECURITY MARKET SIZE IS EXPECTED TO REACH
$22.8 BILLION BY 2026
according to KBV Research
First wave of solutions - OT Technology Customers ill-equipped to apply technology Too many solutions, confuse customers Need is shifting to manages services OT takes domain expertise

So what...
· OT technology companies and OT managed services will need to form strong partnerships
· Customer solutions will include both services and solutions
· Technology sales without services will constrict to larger customers

"Technology is not enough, without someone who knows what to do with it. It's just an expensive paperweight."
~ Executive, Power & Energy
"We don't have the manpower, expertise or resources to handle this. We need a partner."
~ Executive, Maritime

15

#RSAC
Prediction #3: Market drivers will be more important than regulations

Insurance Proposal Assessments M&A Due Diligence Market Valuation

So what...
Position industrial cyber as competitive advantage
Make OT cyber part of RFP assessments
Conduct maturity assessments to make sure you rate highly

"Compliance motivates you to do the least, competition motivates you to do the most." ~ Executive, Oil & Gas
"What if there was some sort of Moody's rating or credit score for OT risk? That would impact valuations and drive change." ~ OT Analyst

16

#RSAC
Conclusions

Applying OT Cyber
Do Now
Conduct a Maturity Assessment and Build a Roadmap that fits your risk environment, strategic goals and budget realities Develop and incident response plan Resolve any potential IT-OT conflicts Understand where your regulatory environment is heading Get senior management and/or the Board involved in your industrial cybersecurity

#RSAC
Do Next
Hire a head of OT cybersecurity Put the basics in place for your OT Systems
­ Asset Inventory and Management ­ Vulnerability Management ­ Monitoring and Response ­ Training
Report to the Board or senior management regularly Consider cyber insurance to augment your program
18

Sources
1 Fortune.com ­ There's a huge surge in hackers holding data for ransom, and the experts want everyone toa take these steps 2 Forbes - A Majority Of Surveyed Companies Were Hit By Ransomware Attacks In 2021--And Paid Ransom Demands 3 2021 The State of Operational Technology and Cybersecurity ­ Fortinet 4, 8,10 2022 SANS Survey ­ Threat-Informed Operational Technology Defense: Securing Data vs. Enabling Physics 5 Industry Week--Can't Turn Back Time: Cybersecurity Must Be Dealt With--2017 6 Gartner--Market Guide for Managed Security Services--2020 7 Forbes X Force Threat Intelligence index--2021 9 Help Net Security-- The cybersecurity of industrial companies remains low, potential damage can be severe--2021

#RSAC

19

