#RSAC

SESSION ID: AIR-W02
Dissecting The Ransomware Kill Chain: Why Companies Need It

Kurtis Minder
CEO, GroupSense

Bryce Webster-Jacobsen
Director of Intelligence Operations, GroupSense

#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
2

#RSAC
Pandemic + Extortion = The Perfect Storm for Ransomware Operators
3

#RSAC
The Lockheed Martin Kill Chain
4

#RSAC
The Unified Kill Chain by Paul Pols
5

#RSAC
We need to evolve to combat ransomware
6

#RSAC
The Ransomware Kill Chain
7

#RSAC
Types of Targets
· Restricted Targets · Targets of Opportunity · Specified Targets

#RSAC
9

#RSAC
10

#RSAC
11

#RSAC
Beyond the Ransomware Kill Chain
12

Lessons Learned in the Trenches

Do Not Panic

Do Not Engage

Don't Shut Down

Do Not Bury Your Head

You have options. This is
recoverable. Revert to your plan and execute.

Don't let anyone go to the site / respond. It can start a timer. Tone, language, style, and
content can significantly impact
odds and costs negatively.

Don't shut down machines, this can cause file corruption,
and hinders the incident response
process.

Having backups and restoring doesn't mean this is over. There are many other things to
consider.

Engage PR Support

Engage IR

Bring in a Professional Responder

Notify Law Enforcement

You will have to notify impacted constituents. Do this carefully and with professional
guidance.

Bring in incident response assistance to understand the scope
of the attack and to ensure the threat actors no longer have
access.

Bring in a professional that has firsthand experience with the entire ransomware process.

It is best practice to make local law
enforcement aware of the situation.

Engage Legal Counsel
It is likely you are subject to breach disclosure laws - bring legal help to determine your obligations.
Monitor
It is likely the threat actor took a significant
amount of data. Monitor just in case it surfaces elsewhere.

#RSAC
Consider Sanctions
Your country may have rules about which entities you can transact with.
Responders can help you avoid penalties.
Contact Insurance
Your insurer may have requirements dictating
how the response is carried out. Engage
them early.

13

#RSAC
Importance of Having a Ransomware Playbook
The objective of a ransomware playbook is to ensure the availability and integrity of digital information stored on all assets by detecting and disrupting threats that would attempt to hold the organization's data hostage.
14

#RSAC
Ransomware Playbook Infrastructure
· Your ransomware playbook should include:
­ List of Key Stakeholders and Responsibilities ­ Detection, Assessment, and Containment Plans and Checklists ­ Communications Plan and Checklist ­ Which Should Include Incident
Communications Statements ­ Response Plans ­ Incident Priority and Impact Classification ­ Payment Decision Making Process and Extortion Payment Approvals ­ Ransomware Event Cost Sheet
15

#RSAC
Apply What You Have Learned Today
· Next week you should:
­ Review your organization's incident response plans and determine ransomware preparedness.
· In the first three months following this presentation you should:
­ Assess your organization's digital footprint and determine the amount of exposure.
· Within six months you should:
­ Have a ransomware playbook
16

Thank You
Kurtis Minder CEO, GroupSense

#RSAC
Bryce Webster-Jacobsen Director of Intelligence Operations

