#RSAC
Disclaimer
Presentations are intended for educational purposes only and do not replace independent professional judgment. Statements of fact and opinions expressed are those of the presenters individually and, unless expressly stated to the contrary, are not the opinion or position of RSA Conference LLC or any other cosponsors. RSA Conference does not endorse or approve, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy or completeness of the information presented. Attendees should note that sessions may be audio- or video-recorded and may be published in various media, including print, audio and video formats without further notice. The presentation template and any media capture are subject to copyright protection.
©2022 RSA Conference LLC or its affiliates. The RSA Conference logo and other trademarks are proprietary. All rights reserved.
1

#RSAC

SESSION ID: STR-W08
All Hands on Deck: A Whole-ofSociety Approach for Cybersecurity

MODERATOR:
Abhilasha Bhargav-Spantzel
Ph.D., Partner Security Architect Microsoft @spantzel

PANELISTS:
Aanchal Gupta
Corporate Vice President Microsoft @nchlgpt

Diane M Janosek
Ph.D. JD, Deputy Director of Compliance, NSA @dm_janosek

Tom Garrison
Vice President Intel @tommgarrison

#RSAC
All Hands on Deck: A Whole-of-Society Approach for Cybersecurity

#RSAC
Panel Questions
Which threats are driving the need for collaboration? How do you think the organizations can collaborate to raise the bar for security?
­ Are there any lessons learned that the panel would be able to share?
What are some joint goals we can establish to achieve the north star for the "whole of society" approach for cyber security? Call for Action: What are some examples of actionable steps we can take to collaborate better?
4

#RSAC
Backup Panel Questions
What are your thoughts regarding diversity and inclusion when it comes to bridging gaps and building strong defenses? What about privacy compliance regulations and how can we balance the need for sharing security information while managing global incident response? What are your thoughts regarding creativity in securing talent in cyber compliance
5

