Detecting and Disrupting Compromised Devices based
on Their Communication Patterns to Legitimate Web
Services
Hen Tzaban
Akamai Technologies Network Security BotConf 2022
1  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Who Am I
Hen Tzaban
Senior Data Scientist Lead Akamai Enterprise Security Research
htzaban@akamai.com
Fields of interest: User behavior analysis, Anomaly detection, and Network traffic
2  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Agenda
 Introduction  Enterprise protection shift from blacklisting domains to monitoring behavior to detect bots that are compromising the enterprise.
 Framework Example  Technical background- PSD (Power Spectral Density) and Neural Networks models  Presenting framework for detecting infected devices according to their DNS traffic patterns
 Analysis  Real-world detections  Disruption - Enforcement Upon Detection  Takeaways
3  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Past - IOC hunting
On Akamai, our products protects more than 400 enterprises worldwide that are concerned with automated bot-ish behavior and unwanted activity. The Goal: Find indication of compromise of a domain/URL in order to increase our DNS/HTTP proxy blocklist
4  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Shift
On Akamai, our products protects more than 400 enterprises worldwide that are concerned with automated bot-ish behavior and unwanted activity. The Goal: Find indication of compromise of a device/user by tracking devices/users behavior in order to alert suspicious activity
5  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Why is that shift is so important in security?
Some well known APT groups as well as cyber criminals leverage legitimate web services such as GitHub, Twitter, Google Storage and many more, in order to achieve their attack goals and breach an enterprise.
HammerToss*:  A malware that uses a variety of techniques to commands execution  It undermines the detection of the malware by adding layers of obfuscation and mimicking the behavior of legitimate devices.  HAMMERTOSS uses Twitter, GitHub, and cloud storage services to send commands and extract sensitive data from compromised enterprise networks.
* HAMMERTOSS: Stealthy Tactics Define a Russian Cyber Threat Group, FIREEYE THREAT INTELLIGENCE
6  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Framework Example
 Technical background- PSD (Power Spectral Density) and Neural Networks models
 Presenting framework for detecting infected devices according to their DNS traffic patterns

7  2022 Akamai | Confidential

* `MORTON: Detection of Malicious Routines in Large-Scale DNS Traffic', ESORICS'21

Goal: Identify Compromised devices in Enterprise Networks

1. Infection

Spam emails

Infected Phishing file

Botnet

2. Connection
Accessed every x minutes

C&C Server

3. Control

Technique: Detect Devices That Engage In Routine Malicious Bot Communication

8  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Threat Model: Types of Routine Malicious Communication
9  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Threat Model: Types of Routine Malicious Communication
Emotet Trickbot ...
HammerToss Zusy ..
bdsklvd.com dasfsdvd.com ....
10  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Technical background: PSD + DL
 Represent each enterprise device behavior:  Create an informative representation of each enterprise device (embedding) using a PSD (Power Spectral Density)
 Use Neural network for fast and accurate classification  Train using simulated bots communication
11  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Power Spectral Density (PSD)
 Power Spectral Density (PSD) is leveraged from a signal processing field  Transform from the time domain into the frequency domain  The higher spectral density of individual frequency is, the more tendency to
repeat with this period the time series has.

UserID

Query name

Query timestamp

1234 boot.dev.pubstack.io. 13214564687

1234 boot.dev.pubstack.io. 13214564689 ...

Any network traffic

12  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Power Spectral Density

Frequency [HZ]

Signal DFT PSD

Some Intuition regarding PSD

Noncompromised Device

Compromised Device

13  2022 Akamai | Confidential

System Overview
14  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Analysis
 Real-world detections in DNS traffic  Disruption - Enforcement Upon Detection  Takeaways
15  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Fsysna Trojan
16  2022 Akamai | Confidential

All the accessed domains by the file are legitimate! But the network behavior deviates from the normal
patterns

Fsysna Trojan
 First observed in early 2019, Fsysna is an advanced trojan that an attacker remotely controls the victim PC.
 Infection is distributed through small-scale spam campaign
 Maintains a C2 connection to control the payloads and sending sensitive information
 Performs activities without the user's knowledge. For example: capturing keyboard input, collecting system information, downloading/uploading files, dropping other malware into the infected system, performing denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, and running/terminating processes.
17  2022 Akamai | Confidential

uBlock: Malicious add-on

Day 1 18  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Day 2

 Malicious add-on for the Chrome browser
that is disguised as an ad blocker
 It's code that was cloned to mimic a
legitimate ad blocker
 Includes a malicious backdoor for cookie
stuffing which is a technique used to commit ad fraud.
 Sends a heartbeat (beacon) to its servers
periodically

Enforcement Upon Detection
Monitoring: 1. Monitor the entire activity of the user. 2. Monitor all the relevant sessions. Security check: 3. Trust pending on security check - Trigger an AV check before allowing
further access to any enterprise service Blocking: 4. Revoke trust for specific apps - Prevent a user from accessing sensitive
applications (e.g., financial applications) 5. Block all the relevant sessions. 6. Block the entire activity of the user.
19  2022 Akamai | Confidential

Takeaways
 We have shown use cases this system detected that no blocklist or signature match was able to detect. Therefore, If you want to defend against sophisticated attacks, as a network defender, don't only use block lists and signatures and start doing behavior based defense systems (and don't leave it to the SOC to handle!)
 Building a personal optimized system leveraging your massive network logs, with specific
use-cases to look for, is beneficial to protect from insider attacks.
 Maintain an holistic approach to view both internal and external web services as suspicious;
it doesn't matter who is hosting it, if your enterprise uses it, it could be a part of a data breach attack!
20  2022 Akamai | Confidential

