Siamese Neural Networks for Detecting Brand Impersonation

Justin Grana (Presenter) Yuchao Dai Jugal Parikh
Nitin Kumar Goel

#BHUSA @BlackHatEvents

Everyone knows the brand impersonation story
Source: Bing Images

Human process for identifying brand impersonation
Task 1: Identify the spoofed brand (easy) Task 2: Check "other" details to see if it aligns with the brand
 Domain names  URLs  Tone of the message...etc
 An automated filter would need to do both.  This project focuses on training a machine learning model to
perform task 1, a pre-requisite for task 2.

Data
 Detonation service screenshots of known malicious brand impersonations.
 50K + images with over 1.3K unique brands  How can we succeed in classification without non-malicious content?

Underlying Assumption
 The best brand impersonation content will look identical to the true brand content.
 The best we can hope to do using visual attributes alone is identify brands, not conduct a benign/malicious classification.
 This is fundamentally a multi-class classification problem

Possible approaches
 Image Hashing
 Too many variations on the same brand
 Traditional classification (i.e. feed forward neural networks)
 Too many classes with too few observations per class
 "Few-shot" learning
 Siamese Networks

What is an Embedding?

Paypal

TD

Siamese Networks with Contrastive Loss
 For inputs of the same brand:

CNN CNN

 ,

L 



 ,

Siamese Networks with Contrastive Loss
 For inputs of the different brands:

CNN CNN

 ,

L 



 ,

Result

Good: Images from the same brand close together
Good: Images from different brands far apart

Outcome-Motivated Metrics

 Know Hit Rate

True

Predicted

True Predicted

 Unknown Misclassification ?

 Known Miss Rate

 Correct Unknown Rate

?

?

 Incorrect Unknown Rate

?

Architecture

Parameters between two Pretrained Model are shared. Parameters between two Classification FC are shared. Final loss is the weighted sum of the 3 sub-losses.
Embedding

Image A

EPmrebteradidniendg NMetowdoerlk

Classification FC

Contrastive FC

Image B

EPmrebteradidniendg NMetowdoerlk

Classification FC

Logits
Which brand does Image A belong?
Are Image A and Image B sharing the
same brand?
Which brand does Image B belong?

Swin Transformers

1. Split image into 4px*4px patches 2. Observe patches with shifted windows
13

1. Embed patches with linear projection 2. Feed patches to transformer

Training Parameters
 80/20 Split
 >50k images with >1.3k unique brands  ~500 brands with only one screenshot, all in test set
 Three separate evaluations:
 Test Set  Alexa Top 33k (hit/miss only)  Known bad (hit/miss only)

Results on Held Out Set

 HR  KMR  IUR  UMR  CUR

? ? ? ?

Hits and Miss Rate ~30k most trafficked websites
These are known benign home pages so we would expect a good algorithm to not detect these as a brand impersonated log-in page

Unlabeled Malicious Sites

Hits and miss rate of known malicious log in pages without brand labels. We would expect a good classifier to have a high hit rate

Calibration
 We showed examples where the Siamese Network is the best on all metrics. However, it is tunable.  With a modest 2% increase in the hit rate in the Alexa dataset, we can achieve a 90% hit rate.

Possible Extensions
 Expanding to other contexts  Testing for robustness/adversarial perturbation  Interpreting classification outputs  Explicitly incorporating logo detection

Thank you!

