Black Hat 2021
The Case for a National Cybersecurity Safety Board

INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON

Make a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Understanding the Cyber Threat to Critical Infrastructure

What is `Critical Infrastructure,' Who Should Defend it, and How?
1. How is it defined? Is this evolving? 2. What regulatory requirements come along with the designation? 3. What powers does the U.S. government have in protecting critical
infrastructure? Are these too narrow, or too broad? 4. If everything is `critical,' is anything?
CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM

Understanding the Cyber Threat to Critical Infrastructure

To Companies

To Countries

1. Cyber Attacks are Costly ­ ransomware cost per incident was $178,254 in 2020 (Gartner)
2. Widespread ­ Phishing attacks increased by 11% during the pandemic (Verizon)
3. Easy ­ malware is freely accessible on both the common and deep web for as little as $70 (TechRepublic)
4. Expanding ­ Internet of (Every)thing

 Fear of "Electronic Pearl Harbor" (overblown?)  Protecting critical national infrastructure

CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM

*Source: KAL's Cartoon, Economist, May 7, 2009

State of Hoosier Cybersecurity 2020

Snapshot

To your knowledge, has your organization experienced a successful cyber incident in the past three years?

 Fewer organizations in critical infrastructure sectors reported successful cyber attacks than non-critical infrastructure organizations

14% 19%

67%

No Yes No response

­ About 13% of critical infrastructure organizations reported successful attacks
­ About 28% of non-critical infrastructure organizations reported successful attacks

Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Most Indiana Organizations Report Taking Steps to Prevent Cyber Incidents
 Just over 91% of organizations surveyed said they had taken some steps to prevent cyber incidents
 Slightly more critical infrastructure organizations said they had taken steps to prevent cyber incidents, when compared to noncritical infrastructure organizations
­ About 94% of critical infrastructure organizations reported taking cyber incident prevention steps
­ About 88% of non-critical infrastructure organizations reported taking cyber incident preventions steps
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Toward a National Cybersecurity Safety Board

Negligence and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
· 2013 State of the Union Address ­ Response to failed legislative push ­ Focus on cyber threats to nation's critical infrastructure
· Executive Order 13636: Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity ­ Increase information sharing ­ Ensure privacy and civil liberties protections ­ Develop a voluntary Cybersecurity Framework
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Proposing a National Cybersecurity Safety Board
 Idea: Why not create an NTSB for cyber attacks?  Evolution:
­ 1991 NRC Report: "Computers at Risk: Safe Computing in the Information Age" ­ 2014 NSF Report: "Interdisciplinary Pathways towards a More Secure Internet" ­ 2018 Academic Article, and 2019 Wall Street Journal piece ­ 2021 Belfer Center Report: "Learning from Cyber Incidents: Adapting Aviation Safety
Models to Cybersecurity  2021 Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

2021 Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity
1. Section 5 Mandate: Establish a Review board "co-chaired by government and private sector leads, that may convene following a significant cyber incident to analyze what happened and make concrete recommendations for improving cybersecurity."
2. Function: DHS and AG work together to staff Board to investigate cyber attacks "affecting FCEB Information Systems or non-Federal systems, threat activity, vulnerabilities, mitigation activities, and agency responses."
3. Board Membership & Timeline: Private sector & law enforcement, with a report due in June 2021 on Board's scope, responsibilities, structure, "thresholds and criteria for the types of cyber incidents to be evaluated"
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Potential Challenges
 Political ­ Scope: which cyber attacks should be investigated? ­ Workforce: identifying the `right' experts ­ Industry Resistance (and Support?)
 Practical ­ Information Sharing & Confidentiality ­ Defining Access to Data, Hardware & Software ­ Defining Appropriate Terminology ­ Need for Urgency
 Related Reforms ­ Major Cyber Incident Investigation Board (CSRB) ­ Bureau of Cyber Statistics ­ A Cyber Safety Reporting System (CSRS)
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

Lessons from the NTSB

About the NTSB
 Agency led by five Members, nominated by the President, confirmed by the Senate
 Investigate transportation accidents in all modes, determine cause(s), make recommendations to prevent recurrences
 Also investigate undesirable trends (not just single accidents), make recommendations to correct trends
 Advocate for implementation of its recommendations, which are not mandatory (but about 80% are implemented)
 Provide support as "accredited representative" for aviation accidents outside the US
Hart Solutions LLC

Advantages of Independent Investigator
 Mishaps in regulated industries are usually investigated by the regulator
 Regulator's actions or omissions often play a role in mishaps
 Regulator's investigation report does not usually include its own actions or omissions as part of the cause
­ Its actions or omissions often not perceived as playing a role
­ Regulator unwilling to admit that its actions or omissions contributed to the mishap
 Independent investigation identifies actions or omissions by regulator that contributed to the mishap
­ More NTSB recommendations go to regulators than to any other single party in the industry
Hart Solutions LLC

History & Evolution of NTSB
 Aviation accidents were investigated by Dept of Commerce for many years; other modes investigated other ways
 Safety for all modes (aviation, rail, highway, maritime, pipeline) was placed under one roof, Dept of Transportation, in 1967
 NTSB was created in 1967 and placed under DOT to investigate accidents in all modes
 Due to awkwardness of NTSB recs going to its "boss," DOT, NTSB was separated from DOT and made independent in 1974
Hart Solutions LLC

M16arch 25, 2021
How Congress Made NTSB Independent
 Party balance ­ Only three of the five Members can be of the President's party
 Insulation from political forces ­ Members are appointed to fixed terms rather than serving at the pleasure of the President
 Knowledge requirement ­ Three of the five Members must have relevant background or experience
 Staggered five-year terms, one Member's term expires at the end of each calendar year, so new President can only replace Members whose terms have expired, provides institutional continuity
 Purpose of independence ­ Helps ensure that probable cause determinations and recommendations are based upon the facts, not influenced by lobbying or undue political influence
Hart Solutions LLC

M17arch 25, 2021

Impetus for Extraordinary Statutory Independence

 Large percentage of the public is afraid of flying, fear of lack of control
 Most federal legislators fly frequently, e.g., to and from DC
Hart Solutions LLC

M18arch 25, 2021
Separation from Litigation
 Facts are public on NTSB website to provide transparency
 NTSB's accident reports are also public, but not admissible in litigation
 Factual portion of the investigation involves all of the "parties" ­ airline, manufacturers, pilots, mechanics, airport, regulator ­ as needed for technical support, but not attorneys or passenger representatives
 To ensure independence and avoid party bias, parties are not involved in the analytical portion of the investigation, solely the NTSB
 NTSB investigators can be deposed only once, and then only about the facts (not about analysis or conclusions)
­ Depositions are often unnecessary because facts are public
 Cockpit voice recorder readouts are not public, NTSB removes nonpertinent content before releasing transcript
Hart Solutions LLC

M19arch 25, 2021

Accidents are Fundamentally Different from Cyber Attacks

 Transportation accidents are almost always caused by inadvertent error
­ Objective of investigation is not to blame, but to propose improvements to prevent recurrences
­ Investigation is very collaborative because everyone wants to prevent recurrences
­ Outcome of investigations is recommendations to whomever can take needed corrective actions, including regulators
­ Investigation is very transparent to demonstrate to public that conclusions and recommendations are from the facts and evidence
­ When evidence of criminal activity or intentional wrongdoing is found, e.g., 9/11, NTSB asks FBI to lead, whereupon NTSB provides technical support, investigation transparency ends
Hart Solutions LLC

M20arch 25, 2021
Fundamental Differences (con't)
 Cyber attacks are intentional
­ Combines need to find perpetrator (as in criminal investigations) along with need to improve mishap defenses (as in NTSB investigations)
­ Transparency is probably undesirable, would give important hacking clues to potential perpetrators
­ Challenge is developing and implementing recommendations for improved defenses without revealing important secrets to potential perpetrators
Hart Solutions LLC

M21arch 25, 2021

NTSB in Other Applications?

 E.g., healthcare, major financial mishaps
 General recommendations
­ Use exhaustive NTSB-type investigation for rare mishaps that surprise even the experts
o Investigations are very thorough, usually take a year or more
­ For mishaps that occur frequently, use collaborative "System Think" approach to identify and address systemic issues
Hart Solutions LLC

Advice for the Biden Administration Based on NTSB Experience
 Problems that occur frequently indicate systemic shortcomings: suggest investigating trends rather than individual events, with focus on systemic issues
 Aviation analogy ­ Commercial Aviation Safety Team, voluntary govt-industry collaborative effort to improve safety
 Problems that are rare and surprise even the safety experts indicate shortcomings that are more unique to the situation: suggest NTSB-type in-depth investigation of the individual circumstances Hart Solutions LLC

M23arch 25, 2021
Conclusions
One size does not fit all
-- but --
Some NTSB processes, e.g., active participation by the parties for technical
support, may be transferable to help cyber attack investigations identify protection gaps and develop remedial
recommendations
Hart Solutions LLC

Thank You!!!
Questions?
Christopher A. Hart Hart Solutions LLC chris@hartsolutionsllc.com
202-680-4122

SECTION 2
Global Note

Global NIST CSF Uptake
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

GDPR Operational Impacts & NIS Directive

1. Cybersecurity & Data Breach Requirements 2. Mandatory Data Protection Officer 3. Consent 4. Cross-Border Data Transfers 5. Profiling 6. Data Portability 7. Vendor Management 8. Pseudonymization 9. Codes of Conduct & Certifications 10. Consequences of Non-Compliance

*Source: IAPP
Making a difference in the fight against cyber attacks

CYBERSECURITY
PROGRAM

