LTE  and  IMSI  catcher  myths  
  
Ravishankar  Borgaonkar*,  Altaf  Shaik¶,  N.  Asokan#,  Valtteri  Niemi§,  Jean--Pierre  Seifert¶  
  
*  Aalto  University   Email--  rbbo@kth.se  

¶  Technische  Universita  t  Berlin  and  Telekom  Innovation  Laboratories       

  

  

Email--  (altaf329,  jpseifert)  @sec.t--labs.tu--berlin.de     

  

#  Aalto  University  and  University  of  Helsinki     Email:  asokan@acm.org  

§  University  of  Helsinki   Email  --  valtteri.niemi@helsinki.fi  

     
Abstract  
   Mobile   devices   have   become   a   necessity   in   human   life,   thanks   to   availability  and  bandwidth  of  LTE  network  services  everywhere.  LTE  (4G)   communication   protocols   promise   several   appropriate   levels   of   subscriber   location   privacy   and   availability   of   network   services   all   the   time.   In   this   work,   we   analyze   access   network   security   protocols   of   LTE   networks.   We   discovered   several   issues   in   LTE   security   standards   and   baseband   chipsets.   We   demonstrate   feasibility   of   attacks   exploiting   these  issues  against  LTE  devices  using  an  experimental  fake  base  station.  

  

Introduction  
   Promise   of   LTE   high--speed   data   connections   with   the   growth   of   smartphones   and   new   mobile   applications   and   services   are   playing   a   vital   role   in   providing   vital   societal   benefits   and   enriching   consumer   experience.   However   these   developments   and   reliance   on   mobile   networks   for   emergency   services   are   also   leading   to   the   emergence   of   new  privacy  and  availability  challenges  across  the  mobile  ecosystem.  

   Security  in  mobile  communications  networks  has  been  improving  in  every   generation.  3G  introduced  mutual  authentication  that  made  it  a  lot  harder   to   mount   fake   base   station   attacks   (such   as   those   used   in   IMSI   catchers).   LTE  tightened  up  many  signaling  protocols  by  requiring  authentication  and   integrity   protection   for   them.   The   generally   held   belief   has   been   that   LTE  

security   is   robust   and   in   particular,   fake   base   station   attacks   mostly   difficult  to  mount.      In  this  work,  we  discovered  different  issues  in  LTE  3GPP  specification  and   baseband   chipsets.   These   issues   allow   an   attacker   to   mount   fake   base   station   attacks   to   track   LTE   subscribers   and   deny   selected   network   services.    We  evaluated  attacks  on  commercially  available  LTE  phones  at   low   cost   and   in   a   real   operator   network.   In   addition,   we   discuss   LTE   network  configuration  issues  responsible  for  assisting  passive  tracking  of   subscribers.    
The   paper   is   structured   as   follows.   Chapter   1   presents   attacks   leaking   information  about  subscriber  locations.  Denial  of  services  attacks  against   subscribers  attached  to  LTE  networks  are  discussed  in  Chapter  2.  Ethical   considerations   and   experimental   setup   are   presented   in   Chapter   3.   We   conclude  in  Chapter  4.  
Note   that,   we   describe   our   attacks   briefly   in   this   paper.   More   detailed   and  technical  information  about  our  research  can  be  found  in  [1].  
     
1. Location  Leak  Attacks  
   Already  when  2G  (GSM)  networks  were  being  designed,  location  privacy   was  considered  important.  When  a  mobile  device  attaches  to  a  network,   it   is   given   a   temporary   identifier   (known   as   TMSI   --   Temporary   Mobile   Subscriber   Identity).   All   the   signaling   messages   between   the   mobile   device   and   the   network   will   thereafter   refer   only   to   the   TMSI,   rather   than  the  user's  permanent  identifiers  (such  as  phone  numbers  or  IMSIs  --   International   Mobile   Subscriber   Identity).   TMSIs   are   random   and   updated   frequently   (e.g.,   whenever   the   mobile   device   moves   to   a   new   location   area).   The   idea   is   that   an   attacker   passively   monitoring   radio   communication  would  not  be  able  to  link  TMSIs  to  permanent  identifiers   or  track  movements  of  a  given  user  (since  his  TMSIs  would  change  over   time).   A   couple   of   years   ago,   Dennis   Foo   Kune   et   al   showed   that   an   attacker  in  a  2G  (GSM)  network  can  trigger  a  paging  request  (by  sending   a   silent   text   message   or   initiating   and   quickly   terminating   a   call)   to   be   sent   to   a   target   user   with   a   given   phone   number   [2].   Paging   requests   contain  TMSIs.  The  attacker  can  thereby  link  TMSIs  to  phone  numbers.  
  

We   discovered   that   paging   requests   can   be   triggered   in   a   new   and   surprising   manner   ----   via   social   network   messaging   apps.   For   example,   if   someone   who   is   not   your   Facebook   friend   sends   you   an   instant   message,   Facebook   will   silently   put   it   in   the   "Other"   folder   as   a   spam   protection   mechanism   (unless   the   spammer   pays   Facebook   1!).   If   you   have   Facebook   Messenger   installed   on   your   LTE   smartphone,   incoming   messages,   including   those   destined   to   the   Other   folder,   will   trigger   a   paging   requests,   allowing   a   passive   attacker   to   link   your   TMSI   to   your   Facebook   identity   and   track   your   movements.   To   make   matters   worse,   we  noticed  that  TMSIs  are  not  changed  sufficiently  frequently   ----  in  one   urban   area   TMSIs   assigned   by   multiple   mobile   carriers   persisted   up   to   three   days!   In   other   words,   once   the   attacker   knows   your   TMSI,   he   can   passively  track  your  movements  for  up  to  three  days.  
   An  active  attacker  using  a  fake  base  station  can  do  even  better.  LTE  access   network   protocols   incorporate   various   reporting   mechanisms   that   allow   the   network   to   troubleshoot   faults,   recover   from   failures   and   assist   mobiles   in   handovers.   For   example,   after   a   failed   connection,   a   base   station   can   ask   an   LTE   device   to   provide   a   failure   report   with   all   sorts   of   measurements   including   which   base   stations   are   seen   by   the   device   and   with   what   signal   strength.   Once   an   attacker   grabs   such   a   report,   he   can   use   the   information   to   triangulate   the   device's   location.   In   fact,   at   least   one   device   we   tested   even   reported   its   exact   GPS   location.   Failure   recovery   mechanisms   are   essential   to   the   reliable   operation   of   large   mobile  networks  ----  LTE  designers  had  a  difficult  design  trade--off  between   potential  loss  of  user  privacy  and  ensuring  network  reliability.  
     
2.  Denial  of  Service  Attacks  
      Imagine  that  you  travel  to  a  different  country  but  your  mobile  subscription   does   not   include   roaming.   When   your   phone   tries   to   connect   to   the   network  at  your  destination,  it  will  be  rejected  with  an  appropriate  "cause   number"   (such   as   "ROAMING   NOT   ALLOWED").   Your   phone   will   dutifully   accept   this   directive   and   will   not  attempt   to   connect   again   until   you   re-- initialize  the  device  (e.g.,  by  rebooting  it).  This  is  so  that  your  device  does   not  waste  its  battery  in  vain  by  repeatedly  trying  to  connect  to  a  network   only  to  be  rejected.  It  is  also  a  way  to  minimize  unnecessary  signaling  over   the  air.  In  other  words,  this  design  decision  was  also  motivated  by  a  desire  

to  trade--off  in  favor  of  reliability  and  performance.  You  can  guess  the  rest:   we  show,  for  example,  that  an  attacker  can  deny  4G  and  3G  services  to  a   4G   device,   thereby   effectively   downgrading   it   to   2G.   Once   downgraded,   the   device   is   open   to   all   the   legacy   2G   vulnerabilities.   The   parameter   negotiation   during   the   LTE   connection   set   up   process   is   vulnerable   to   bidding   down   attacks   by   a   man--in--the--middle   who   can   fool   an   LTE   device   and  an  LTE  network  into  concluding  that  they  can  only  communicate  using   2G.        
3.  Experimental  Setup  and  Ethical  Considerations  
   To   evaluate   feasibility   of   the   attacks,   we   built   a   fake   base   station   using   open  source  software  and  readily  available  hardware  tools.          To  build  an  LTE  test  network,  we  used  a  USRP  B210  device  [3],  which  acts   as   a   base   station.   On   the   software   side,   we   modified   OpenLTE   [4]   and   srsLTE   [5]   packages   in   order   to   be   able   to   communicate   with   commercial   LTE  devices.  Following  figure  depicts  the  setup.     
     
Fig.  Experimental  Setup  

We   took   precautions   to   prevent   our   experiments   from   interfering   with   other   phone   users   in   the   vicinity.   Active   attacks   were   carried   out   in   a   Faraday  cage  [6]  whereas  for  passive  attacks  we  made  sure  not  to  cause   service   interruption   to   normal   users.   Only   our   designated   test   devices   were   subject   to   any   attack.   Further   description   of   techniques   we   used   can   be   found   in   [1].   We   notified   relevant   vulnerabilities   to   baseband   chipset  vendors  and  standardization  bodies.     
   4.  Conclusions  
   We   have   shown   new   vulnerabilities   in   LTE   standards   and   baseband   chipsets,  which  allow  tracking  of  subscribers  and  denial  of  services  using  a   fake   base   station.   We   tested   several   LTE   devices   to   evaluate   our   attacks.   Further   we   showed   how   privacy   attacks   can   be   exploited   using   popular   social   application   such   as   Facebook   in   our   test   experimental   setup.   Our
research report [1] provides more technical details. For up-to-date information about our work, check out the project website (https://se-
sy.org/        
References        
1.  http://arxiv.org/abs/1510.07563      2.  http://www.internetsociety.org/location--leaks--over--gsm--air--interface      3.  http://www.ettus.com/product/details/UB210--KIT      4.  http://openlte.sourceforge.net/      5.  https://github.com/srsLTE/srsLTE      6.    http://www.gamry.com/application--notes/instrumentation/faraday-- cage  

