How to build resilience to cyberattacks

Jonathan Reiber

Senior Fellow UC Berkeley Center for Long-term Cybersecurity

High consequence risks

3.3 BILLION

4.-

Sony Pictures Entertainment...

A crossroads of two futures.... Pervasive destructive attacks...

A crossroads of two futures....
Pervasive destructive attacks... or
...cultures of cybersecurity and resilience that take root

Stakeholders

6,200 100,000+

Technology is not the center of the story...
...that is us

Four recommendations  Every organization needs a cyberstrategy

Four recommendations  Every organization needs a cyberstrategy  Get the basics right

Four recommendations  Every organization needs a cyberstrategy  Get the basics right  Government and private sector together

Information sharing; penetration testing; future of partnerships
1. The Sharing of Cyber Threat Indicators and Defensive Measures by the Federal Government Under the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015  Explains how government shares info about cyber threat indicators (CTIs) and defensive mea sures (DMs)  Some organizations have security clearances; some don't  Federal government declassifies information often  Agencies share information about threats and best practices
2. Guidance to Assist Non-Federal Entities to Share Cyber Threat Indicators and Defensive Measures with Federal Entities under the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act  Helps non- federal government institutions determine DMs, and explains liability and statuto ry protections  Explains nature of cyber threat indicators and defensive measures  Protected health, human resources, financial, consumer information  Options for non-federal entities to report: Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) system, DHS w eb form, and Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations and Centers (ISAOs and ISACs)

3. The Final Procedures Related to the Receipt of Cyber Threat Indicators and Defensive Measures by the Federal Government  Methods for information sharing  Human reviewers analyze the information  Covers sanctions that arise from violations of the requirements, which include "remedial training; loss of access to information; loss of a security clearance; and termination of employment"
4. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Final Guidelines: Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015  Protecting privacy and civil liberties in CISA-compliant sharing of CTIs and DMs  Reiterates the Fair Information Practice Principles  Notes that DMs should include no info that can identify specific individuals  Guidance on what info notices that deal with non-cyber threat indicators should contain, and the circumstances under which information about CTIs and DMs should be retained

How do Internet and private companies enterprises share cyber threat indicators and defensive measures with government?  Ad hoc : between companies and govvies that trust each other  Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS), through DHS
 Standardized fields for input of relevant info  Info only shares once analyzed  DHS also provides an online form that businesses can fill out
 Email to National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) with information about CTIs and DMs.
 Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) and Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAOs) who communicate with the federal government on their behalf

 ISAOs and ISACs  ISACs: funded and operated by private enterprises  Connected to critical infrastructure sectors (IT ISAC, health ISAC)  ISAOs: share info among small business, consulting, accounting, legal firms  Internet companies: encouraged to join ISAOs through workshops and public meetings that are held around the country.
 Public forums: experts share information  White House Cybersecurity Commission; Congress
 Cyber information Sharing and Collaboration Program  Companies gain access to NCCIC floor at DHS; classified clearances
 DHS's Enhanced Cybersecurity Services (ECS) shares info with commercial ISPs; open to all public and private entities in the United States.
 Info and collaboration with US-CERT  Enduring Security Framework  Ad hoc information sharing and collaboration: vital! Trust!

Penetration testing  Penetration testing roles
 Also known as "red-teaming" or "tiger teaming"  Purpose: emulate & break in to nets to find vulnerabilities
 Key difference between attacker/pen-tester: permission  Have auditor protected by legal counsel
 Contracts should protect; be specific  Diverse ways of managing pen testers:
 Internal; external firms; bug bounties  Governance: Certified Penetration Tester (CPT).
 Certifications: CISSP; CEH.  Wassanaar Agreements: legal regimes could impose limits on on dual-use expor
t controls to do basic monitoring  Need to be careful about how we control pen testing

Four recommendations  Every organization needs a cyberstrategy  Get the basics right  Government and private sector together  Plan for resilience

And then... Put down your phones.

And then... Put down your phones.
Our social bonds cannot be hacked.

THANKS

