Cyber Threat Hunting in the Middle East
SEPTEMBER 2018
Kevin Albano
Global Threat Intelligence Lead

It's just a little dusty...
2 IBM Security

Gulf Cooperation Council Countries
 Kuwait  Bahrain  Qatar  United Arab
Emirates  Oman  Saudi Arabia
3 IBM Security

Iran Based Threats

Social Engineering  Fake personas  Target Individuals
Spear-phishing  Productivity Documents  Strategic Web
Compromise

Backdoor  Powershell  DGA C2

Threat action  Destructive (Wiper)  Maintain Persistence

Internal Recon  Increased dwell time  Understand Supply
Chain

Target Industries  Military  Energy  Government  Aerospace  Petrochemical

4 IBM Security

CTI Operations

THREAT INTEL PERSONAS
Doers
Doers protect their domain from relevant threats

Experts
Experts identify and curate threat information from around the globe

Personas

6 IBM Security

Watchers
Watchers communicate key threats relevant to their domain
Decision Maker
Decision makers / influencers affect resource management in response to relevant threats

Who are the Hunters?

Threat Intel Personas
7 IBM Security

Doers
Doers protect their domain from relevant threats
Watchers
Watchers communicate key threats relevant to their domain
Decision Maker
Decision makers / influencers affect resource management in response to relevant threats
Experts
Experts identify and curate threat information from around the globe

40% 10% 40% 10%

THANK YOU
FOLLOW US ON: ibm.com/security securityintelligence.com xforce.ibmcloud.com @ibmsecurity youtube/user/ibmsecuritysolutions
 Copyright IBM Corporation 2016. All rights reserved. The information contained in these materials is provided for informati onal purposes only, and is provided AS IS without warranty of any kind, express or implied. Any statement of direction represents IBM's current intent, is subject to change or withdrawal, and represent only goals and objectives. IBM, the IBM logo, and other IBM products and services are trademarks of the International Business Machines Corporation, in the United States, other countries or both. Other company, product, or service names may be trademarks or service marks of others. Statement of Good Security Practices: IT system security involves protecting systems and information through prevention, detection and response to improper access from within and outside your enterprise. Improper access can result in information being altered, destroyed, misappropriated or misused or can result in damage to or misuse of your systems, including for use in attacks on others. No IT system or product should be considered completely secure and no single product, service or security measure can be completely effective in preventing improper use or access. IBM systems, products and services are designed to be part of a lawful, comprehensive security approach, which will necessarily involve additional operational procedures, and may require other systems, products or services to be most effective. IBM does not warrant that any systems, products or services are immune from, or will make your enterprise immune from, the malicious or illegal conduct of any party.

