20 YEARS OF BEING AN ENTREPRENEUR IN 10 SLIDES

David Maman

Founder, CEO and CTO
Binah.ai

David Maman
 Founder, CEO & CTO of Binah.ai, AI company.  Previously: Founder and CTO of Hexatier, Acquired by Huawei  Serial Entrepreneur: Preacom, Vanadium-soft, Rawanalysis, GreenCloud,
Xplenty, Terassic5, Teridion, Nipendo, TrioGreen, and others. Eight are Cyber Security Startups, offensive and defensive  26 years of hands-on experience in low-level security, development, AI, networking, management and problem solving  Master's in computer science and math, Written 27 patents.  Previous experience  Director in the CTO office of Fortinet  Managed Information Security and Advanced technologies at Bezeq,
The Israeli Telecom  Elite technology unit of the Israel Defense Forces

Opportunity Identification: The Search for New Ideas
 Opportunity identification is central to entrepreneurship and involves
 Creative pursuit of ideas  Innovation process
 The first step for any entrepreneur is the identification of a "good idea."
 The search for good ideas is never easy  Opportunity recognition can lead to both personal and societal wealth
 How entrepreneurs do what they do:
 Creative thinking + Systematic analysis = Success  Seek out unique opportunities to fill needs and wants  Turn problems into opportunities  Recognize that problems are to solutions as demand is to supply

The Role of Creative Thinking
· Creativity · The generation of ideas that results in the improved efficiency or effectiveness of a system
· Two important aspects of creativity exist: · Process · The process is goal oriented and designed to attain a solution to a problem · People · The resources who determine the solution

Two Approaches to Creative Problem Solving

Adaptor Employs a disciplined, precise, methodical approach Is concerned with solving, rather than finding, problems Attempts to refine current practices
Tends to be means oriented
Is capable of extended detail work Is sensitive to group cohesion and cooperation

Innovator Approaches tasks from unusual angles
Discovers problems and avenues of solutions
Questions basic assumptions related to current practices Has little regard for means; is more interested in ends Has little tolerance for routine work Has little or no need for consensus; often is insensitive to others

The Nature of the Creative Process

· Creativity is a process that can be developed and improved.
· Some individuals have a greater aptitude for creativity than others.
· Typical Creative Process · Phase 1: Background or knowledge accumulation · Phase 2: Incubation process · Phase 3: Idea experience · Phase 4: Evaluation and implementation

The Knowledge and Learning Process

Specific interest knowledge

Personal work experience and
education
Distilling Ideas into
Opportunities

General industry knowledge

Prior customer understanding

Prior market knowledge

The Most Common Idea "Killers"
1. "Naah." 2. "Can't" (said with a shake of the head and an air of finality). 3. "That's the dumbest thing I've ever heard." 4. "Yeah, but if you did that . . ." (poses an extreme or unlikely disaster case). 5. "We already tried that -- years ago." 6. "I don't see anything wrong with the way we're doing it now." 7. "We've never done anything like that before." 8. "We've got deadlines to meet -- we don't have time to consider that." 9. "It's not in the budget." 10. "Where do you get these weird ideas?"

Developing Your Creativity
· Recognizing Relationships · Looking for different or unorthodox relationships among the elements and people around you.
· Developing a Functional Perspective · Viewing things and people in terms of how they can satisfy his or her needs and help complete a project.
· Using Your Brain · The right brain helps us understand analogies, imagine things, and synthesize information. · The left brain helps us analyze, verbalize, and use rational approaches to problem solving.

Difference between Research and Development
· Prior to electricity, the candle industry dominated. · Streets, houses and businesses were all lighted by candles. · There was a huge investment -- estimated as hundreds of millions of dollars -- in the
candles industry! · Every vendor wanted to have the best candles! · Best engineers developed candles, longer lasting, less smelly, better lightning, easily
lighted, cost and weight less, and even look better. · With all this investment in candles, not even one dollar out of this investment lead to
inventing electricity!
· Most startups evolve to different solutions and offerings, don't let it freak you out.

The Major Misconceptions of Innovation
· Innovation is planned and predictable · Technical specifications must be thoroughly prepared · Innovation relies on dreams and blue-sky ideas · Big projects will develop better innovations than smaller ones · Technology is the driving force of innovation success
Principles of Innovation
· Be action oriented. · Make the product, process, or service simple and understandable. · Make the product, process, or service customer-based. · Start small but aim high. · Try/test/revise. · Learn from failures! · Follow a milestone schedule. · Reward heroic activity. · Work, work, work.

YOU GOT A GREAT IDEA, WHAT NOW?
20 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE AS AN ENTREPRENEUR IN 10 SLIDES

10 DO WHAT YOU'RE GOOD AT!
FIND THE RIGHT TEAM

9 STRATEGY IS TO KNOW WHAT
NOT TO DO!

8 MONEY ­ WHO AND WHY?
NO RULES!

7 HUMAN RESOURCES DON'T SETTLE FOR AVERAGE! THE DOWNFALL
EFFECT.

6 FAKE IT TILL YOU MAKE
IT! EVERYONE DOES 

5 YOUR OPTIMISM AND
ENERGY MUST BE CONTAGIOUS!

4 THINK ABOUT THE VALUE THE CUSTOMER GETS AND NOT THE SOLUTION OR THE
TECHNOLOGY!

3 STARTUP IS A MARATHON, NOT A SPRINT. REMEMBER TO SET SHORT-TERM GOALS
!

2 SEEK OUT THE NEGATIVE
FEEDBACK!

1 NEVER GIVE UP!

THANKS

