SESSION ID: LAB4-T11
Flameproofing your Career: Preventing Burnout and Dealing with Adversity

Karen Freeman Worstell
Advocate for Cyber People and Principal Optimist W Risk Group LLC @karenworstell @mojomaker4wit

#RSAC

My Story
NOT ONCE BUT TWICE...
Burnout syndrome can result in serious health consequences The good news is, it is preventable
2

#RSAC
What is Burnout?
World Health Organization recognizes burnout as a distinct occupational stress related "syndrome." It results from chronic workplace stress that has not been successfully managed including:
­ feelings of energy depletion or exhaustion; ­ increased mental distance from one's job, or feelings of negativism or
cynicism related to one's job; ­ reduced professional efficacy.
https://www.stress.org/burnout-is-now-an-official-medical-condition
3

#RSAC
#chronic #workplace #stress #not #managed
We need to address this organizationally as well as individually

Organizational Hazard of Burnout
MY BURNOUT SYNDROME IS YOUR BURNOUT SYNDROME
The underlying origins causing burnout are up to management to address
5

Emotional and Physical Exhaustion
THEY ARE NOT IN YOUR HEAD
But the beliefs, values, and patterns that lead to them are ­ and you can change them
6

Cynicism

#RSAC
Why do leaders need to address contributing factors? It is the symptom of an underlying belief system and an illogical thought process that essentially throttle creativity and innovation in its infancy.
7

Cybersecurity Hamster Wheel of Pain
A METAPHOR FOR CHRONIC PERPETUAL INEFFECTIVENESS
8

#RSAC
Actionable Strategies
Turnaround is possible: starting with you

#RSAC
Know Yourself: Key to Burnout Prevention
Answer this question: what do you want? Choose Your emotions ­ they determine the quality of your life. Become conscious of your core beliefs about yourself and the way the world works. Understand what you value and the rules that you make for your value system.
10

#RSAC
Your Emotions Determine the Quality of Your Life
You choose them by managing your state
11

Best Brain Hack Ever?
USE YOUR OWN NEURAL NETWORK TO HELP YOU FIND MORE OF WHAT YOU WANT
Reticular Activating System (RAS) is your customizable filter to focus
12

When You Live a Balanced and Fulfilled Life ­ Burnout #RSAC Can't Take Hold
Effectiveness
Physical Health Emotional Health State
13

Focus ­ What is Your Primary Question
YOUR PRIMARY QUESTION IS A REFLECTION OF YOUR FOCUS
Changing Your Primary Question Could Change Your Life
14

Know Yourself: Six Universal Human Needs
Code Words
Code Words
15

#RSAC
Acedia ­ "The Noonday Devil"
Acedia is often mistaken for burnout or depression. Also called "sloth." It is a state of mind ­ as if your soul's song went silent. It is directly related to an environment that demands that you care about everything at a high level all of the time. The net result is disengagement from life and vocation and a disdain for living. It is not laziness. It is a particular trap of the 24/7 pressure of Cybersecurity.
16

#RSAC
Specific Techniques and Application
Putting Strategies into Daily Practice

#RSAC
Prevention and Antidotes for Acedia
Specific action that contributes to what is meaningful to you ­ something that ignites your soul's song.
­ Set aside time in the morning to start the day. ­ Combine multiple activities if that works best for you. ­ Include gratitude, beauty, connection to your Higher Power, breath work,
physical movement.
18

#RSAC
Prevention and Antidotes for Cynicism
Actions
Believe that you can change this. Become aware and acknowledge this behavior. Set your intention for optimism. Focus on what is working well, on catching people doing things right, and on the positive attributes of others.
19

BELIEVE
DO YOU BELIEVE YOU CAN MAKE IT BETTER?
Deep within each of us is an inner longing to live a life of greatness and contribution ­ to really matter, to really make a difference. We can consciously decide to leave behind a life of mediocrity and to live a life of greatness. Stephen Covey
20

#RSAC
Thank you!
Please help us make these labs better. Tear out the evaluation form on Page 19 and leave it at the back of the room.
If you have questions after the event, tag me on Twitter @karenworstell or leave me a DM.
"Being an ally is the kevlar shield against burnout." Karen Worstell and Selena Templeton, RSAC 2019.
21

