Crawl, Walk, Run: Living the PSIRT Framework
Mark Stanislav Director of Application Security, Duo Security

Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT)
 Counterpart to a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), not a replacement -- high-maturity organizations have both!
 A PSIRT is likely to establish functions that service both their internal stakeholders (e.g. engineers) and external parties (e.g. researchers).
 Establishes a programmatic approach to managing the full scope of ensuring that products & services provided by their organization are able to resolve security defects and communicate risk to customers.

Understanding PSIRT Populations & Age
 FIRST has 17 members of 420 total with "product" in their team's naming.
 The earliest established PSIRT is HPE in 1992!
 We're clearly still in a nascent period of PSIRT.

Why So Few PSIRTs?
 Data is only for `full' members of FIRST, not an index of all that exist.
 Some organizations may choose not to break-out PSIRT cleanly.
 Others may just use their CSIRT as a conduit for FIRST involvement.
 All BIG names on this list...

The FIRST PSIRT Services Framework (v1.0 Draft)
 Released in draft form in June, 2017 to gain industry feedback.
 Compliments the CSIRT Services Framework from March, 2016.
 Six defined "Service Areas" to group PSIRT focuses & process.
 The basis of this presentation!

Services Framework Organizational PSIRT Models

 Intends to provide models that will satisfy many organizational sizes, maturity, and structures.

Distributed

Centralized

 Helps to frame the ownership of various key PSIRT functions.
Hybrid
 Focus on success, not trying to do square pegs->round holes.

Product Security for the Rest of Us
 While dedicated PSIRT functions exist in large corporations, all of us responsible for product security should be building a program, too!
 25% of LinkedIn job titles with "PSIRT" belong to just five companies.
Let's Talk About How to Get to a Better Place!

Understanding

Product Security

Focuses Since the Beginning...  Bugs happen. How you respond
is (usually) what counts most.
 Be transparent to customers.
 Index on the fast remediation & communication of critical issues.
 Be appreciative of researchers.

Framing Our Organization  Established: 2010
 Customers: 10,000+
 Employees: 600+
 Focus: SaaS Authentication & End-point Security Technologies.

Our Overall Security Organization

Labs
Security Researchers Product R&D
Data Science

Corporate Security
Security Analysts
Trust & Compliance
Offensive Security Corporate Security
Engineers

Application Security
Application Security Engineers
Cloud Security Engineers
Responsible for Leading PSIRT

Security Development Lifecycle (SDL)

Training

Requirements

Design

Implementation

Verification

Release

 We map offered team "services" against the SDL to support Engineers throughout the entire SDLC.

 Response is something we want to be great at, but work hard throughout the entire SDL to minimize the need.

 We invest early, and often, in security.

Response
Training Requirements Design Implementation Verification Release Response

Security Defect Handling

Initiation of PSIRT Incident Handling Process
 Any Critical or High security defect found in our production services or released software is likely to initiate a PSIRT incident.
 The Application Security team operates with discretion and brings in stakeholders to support the process when most relevant.

Stakeholders to Execute Successful Response
 Application Security: Initiation &  Legal: Aligns Our Response to the Management of the PSIRT Process. Needs of Contractual Obligations.

 Customer Success: Ensures That All  PR: Supports Drafting of All

Customers Can Remediate Issues.

Communications for Outreach.

 Marketing: Provides Email & Social  Engineering: Creates Necessary Media Outreach to Our Customers. Patches to Remediate Defects.

 Engineering Operations: Deploys Fixes to Our Cloud Service.

 Quality Assurance: Tests Patches to Limit Software Regressions.

Our PSIRT Execution Template
 Initial Report (Who? When? Via What Method?)  List of PSIRT Stakeholders (Who? Role?)  Advisory Publication (When? Where?)  Security Metrics & Scores (CVSS, CWE, VRT)  Reproduction Details (Who? When? How?)  Remediation Tracking (Patch Links with Description)  Issue Overview (Summary, Root Cause, Impact, Resolution)  Timeline (Date & Time for All Major Events/Actions Taken)  Workflow Checklist (Sign-off with Name & Date for Each Step)  Meeting Notes (When? Who? Where? Duration? Notes & Actions)  Post Mortem (Who? When? Details for Each Q & A Focus)

Outreach - Product Security Advisory (PSA)
Context: Generally used for `Critical' (P1) security defects. May, or may not, have action required by customers to resolve. Large focus on customers having useful information to make decisions with.
Method(s):  GPG-signed email to impacted customers.  All PSAs are added to our public web site.  Additional outreach may occur 1:1 via phone.  May result in blog post for additional depth.

Days From Discovery to Customer Receiving PSA

There Were a Few Missteps Along the Way
PSIRT Outtake #1 (2014) Emailing our first Product Security Advisory as a PDF. We had a few customers asking if we were sending them malware. *facepalm*
PSIRT Outtake #2 (2014) We released a PSA before the fix was even ready, causing a bit of chaos...

Outreach - Customer Notification
Context: For non-Critical security & privacy issues, we provide customers with more narrative details of a concern they should know about with clear, transparent communication being our top priority.
Method(s):  Email is sent to all impacted customers.  May be posted as a blog for wider accessibility.  Additional outreach may occur 1:1 via phone.

Customers Value When Companies Proactively Do the Right Thing...

Outreach - Threat Notification
Context: To provide customers awareness that a technology we believe they use has a security issue outside of the direct context of our product.
Method(s):  Email is sent to all likely relevant customers.  Additional outreach may occur 1:1 via phone.

Improving Our Program's Depth & Breadth

 Created a good-enough draft spreadsheet of the Framework for an internal gap analysis.
 Frameworks are not checklists, but they can definitely help to structurally review your efforts.

We Measured & Annotated 195 Facets of Our PSIRT in Their Current State!

 Also a great way to consider new ideas or revisit old ones.

* why yes, that is fake data! :)

Considering Our Aggregated Results (Dec. 2017)
 Reflects a conservative view for each facet to prevent us from lying to ourselves :)
 Helped to frame with more specificity the perceptions we had of our own program.
 Provided a crucial "input" to our next-step planning...

Now What? More Spreadsheets, Duh!

Existing Program

PSIRT Gap Analysis

Action Items

1. Identify themes within areas 2. Define program enhancements 3. Assign a priority and timeline 4. Execute!

* why yes, that is fake data! :)

PSIRT Enhancement Breakdown
 29 "action areas," that each may have a few tactical items a piece.
 Quarterly planning with the intent to resolve all action areas within 2018, considerate of dependencies.
 At end of year, re-measure against the non-draft(?) PSIRT Framework.

Example Program Gaps & Resulting Action Items
Focus Area: Incident Post-mortem process (1.1.3) Gap Note: "A post-mortem may happen for a severe enough issue, but not regimented or well structured."
Enhancement:  Established a mandatory post-mortem process to be done
within a week following the resolution of an incident.
 Formalized a section of our "PSIRT Execution Template" to put those details in the same file for long-term alignment.

Example Program Gaps & Resulting Action Items
Focus Area: Handle Vulnerability Reports (2.1.2) Gap Note: "Published SLA on disclosure page, but adherence to that by PSIRT needs better process & handling in place."
Enhancement:  Created an "External Security Response" process that uses
per-stage SLA timelines to ensure we always act promptly.
 Leveraged ISO 30111 (Vulnerability Handling Processes) to align our program with industry standards for our actions.

Example Program Gaps & Resulting Action Items
Focus Area: Collect data (3.1.2.1) & Finder Profile (3.2.3) Gap Note: "Establish a location to collect details about the people who submit vulnerabilities to us. This could include bug reports historically, contact details, quality metrics, etc."
Enhancement:  Tracking metadata about all "External Security Response"
actions we take to more fully understand our reporters.
 Retroactively went back a year to populate information of people who contacted us prior to establishing this data set.

Key Themes for Enhancements in 2018
 Document: Define comprehensive workflows for PSIRT incidents, train stakeholders, update processes, and execute a full PSIRT drill.
 Inventory: Build & procure technologies that provide a detailed view of software security, writ large, to fully understand our PSIRT scope.
 Communicate: Improve internal communicate methodologies during PSIRT incidents and update our web site's content for third-parties.
 Measure: Track adherence to internal SLAs for both defect resolution & external security response engagement. Establish PSIRT KPIs.

Security Software Inventory (SSI)
 100% in-house developed to be a single pane of glass for our holistic view of software security at Duo.
 Leverages an aggregation of the auto-discovered repositories from many locations across our company.
 Ultimately will provide a singular portal for day-to-day AppSec needs.

Tips For Successful a PSIRT
 Provide a Large "Front Door" to Finders
 Publish PSIRT contact details on your web site.  Provide a GPG key for secure communications.
 Release "Bad News" on Tuesday - Thursday
 Don't bury your bugs under weekends/holidays.  The quickest way to make critics is via poor timing.
 Keep the PSIRT Strategic and Technical
 A great PSIRT must be able to understand technical security defects to be an effective partner with teams.
 ...but you need decisive, organized leadership, too!

Key Takeaways
1. While PSIRT representation is skewed towards larger enterprises, it's much easier to build a product security program while you're small.
2. Whether customers, security researchers, or internal employees, do not forget that being polite, prompt, and transparent go a long way.
3. Don't try to do it all. Use the PSIRT Framework as a jumping-off point to align your PSIRT effort to the needs of the business & customers.
4. Invest your time wisely ahead of incidents to save time during them.

Thank you! Questions?
Mark Stanislav mstanislav@duo.com

