CERT@VDE ≠ The cybersecurity platform for industrial small and medium-sized enterprises (SME)
Andreas Harner, Head of CERT@VDE Hamburg, January 2018

Industrial IoT (IIoT) or Industry 4.0

IT based automation devices based on classic operation systems

classic fieldbuses replaced by Ethernet-based buses Worldwide access to the sensors: through the Cloud!

Process-IT (PIT)

Office-IT

15.02.2018

shop-floor
© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

office-floor
2

Security differences between Office-IT and Process-IT

Anti-Virus-Programs product life cycle
real-time requirement application of patches security tests / audits
outsourcing physical security vulnerability handling

Process-IT, Industrial Control Systems (ICS)
unusual / difficult to apply up to 20 years and longer
very high not regular / unplanned
no common practice rarely
varies from low until high SME: immature

Office-IT, Office-Systems usual / easy to apply
3 - 5 years low: delays are acceptable
regular / planned planned und partly mandatory
standard high (esp.Critical Infrastructures)
standard

...need of a ,,coordinating PSIRT" in Germany for ICS...

Common Position:  ,,....we, the SMEs of the Industrial Automation need a trusworthy, neutral, independant
platform based on an institution with a wellknown reputation..."  VDE e.V. (registered association, non-profit)"
 Within european time zone ≠ able to speak German ≠ able to speak ,,Automation"

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

4

Scope of CERT@VDE
Process-IT (PIT)

Office-IT

15.02.2018

shop-floor
© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

office-floor
5

The VDE e.V. - Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies

Science,Technology, Innovation
 Knowledge transfer in the VDE network of experts
 Partner for educational and technological policies
 Youth development

Standardisation
 VDE|DKE is the German member of IEC and of CENELEC

non-profit

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

Test, Certification
 Interoperability ≠ Safety ≠ Security - Usability
6

Historical interrupt or ,,why VDE"?
1879  Foundation of the first "Berliner Elektrotechnik-
Vereins": Proposed by Werner v. Siemens:
 Safety... for electrical systems
 Exchange of information ... between power
operators and manufacturers

Fuﬂnote: Von Unknown, dead. - Scan from Original, Gemeinfrei Quelle: https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1733600

1893
 Foundation of VDE (by Adolf Slaby and Georg Wilhelm von Siemens)

Electrical Safety  Functional Safety  Cybersecurity

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

7

Today`s situation: vulnerability handling in SMEs

unorganized approaches
SMEs feel overstrained (CVSS, CVE,..)
ICS Cert ,,speaks" English and is not in the European
timezone

no access to the CERTcommunity
vulnerability handling of ICS
products in SME...

 no / limited resources for vulnerability handling  no PSIRT
 no routine in interacting with CERTs
 no trusting instance in Germany  restricted trust in governmental
organisations
reactions happen secretly:  no colaboration
 no exchange of information  no cross-company interaction
 many partial solutions

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

8

Further drivers for CERT@VDE

Technical threat level

Economic importance

Political situation

Standards

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

9

Germany: National Cybersecurity-Strategy (2016)

1

- Protect enterprises
- Foster economy

- Colaboration of providers
- Involvement of external IT-security expertise

2

Increase the ability to analyse and to react on cyber threats
...to fight against cyber espionage and cyber cybersabotage
Strengthen CERTstructures:
 Attract ressources and personnel...

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

10

IEC 62443: Normative requirements in standards for industrial security

General
1-1 Technology, concepts and models
1-2 Master Glossary of terms and abbreviations
1-3 System security compliance metrics 1-4 System security lifecycle and use case

Policies and procedures
2-1 Requirements for an IACS security management system Ed 2.0 Profile of ISO 27001/27002
2-2 Implementation guidance for an IACS security management system
2-3 Patch management in the IACS environment (TR)

System
3-1 Security technologies for IACS (TR)
3-2 Security risk assessment and system design
3-3 System security requirements and security
levels

Component
4-1 Secure product development lifecycle
4-2 Technical security requirements for IACS
products

Definitions Metrics

2-4 Requirements for IACS solution suppliers

Security Requirements for plant owner and suppliers

Security Requirements for a secure system

Security Requirements for secure components

Process requirements

Functional requirements

Dr. Lutz J‰nicke / SPS: CERT@VDE / 30.11.2017

11

Closing the gap: CERT@VDE
has own production: is an operator too! Manufacturer (HW and SW)

has own production: is an operator too!
Machine builder or
Integrator

national /international CERT community

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

Operator (asset owner)
12

Added values for CERT@VDE cooperation partners
 cross-company discussions and interaction on the trustworthy and secure environment of CERT@VDE (anonymous, if required)  motivates to collaborate!
 information hub between CERT community and automation industry
qualified information exchange between manufacturers, operators, integrators and CERT community  Responses to threats/detected vulnerabilities: structured and faster!
Single Point of Contact:  for operators to find contact persons of the manufacturers  for operators to find published security information of all their suppliers in one place  for manufacurers to adress customers and integrators using their products  supports the communication with other CERTs (e.g. ICS-CERT) for the constituency  supports the communication with reporters of vulnerabilities (,,White-Hat Hacker"...):
 ,,Coordinated Disclosure"  collects and provides industry-specific security information for the constituency

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

13

Added values for CERT@VDE cooperation partners ≠ II.
coordination when fixing vulnerabilities and support on publication of advisories. CVE number assignment (lack of routine in SMEs dealing with CVSS)
elaborate Best Practices by the constituency, for the constituency
events and workshops for the automation industry to improve processes, to raise awareness and to promote the importance of CERTs
 image boost for the cooperation partners  institutionalisation of PSIRT structures inside the SMEs is encouraged

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

14

Status of CERT@VDE

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

 Team: 1 Head 2 IT-Sec-Managers 1 BDM + marketing
 Web: https://cert.vde.com
 Advisories  Collaboration platform based
on ,,Mattermost"  Member:
- ,,Deutscher CERT Verbund" - Accredited in ,,TI-TF-CSIRT"
15

Thank you for your attention!

https://cert.vde.com
Andreas Harner Head of CERT@VDE Phone: +49 69 6308 392 andreas.harner@vde.com

15.02.2018

© VDE Verband der Elektrotechnik Elektronik Informationstechnik e. V.

16

