Our Quantum Future
Jaya Baloo 11/1/2018

Bristlecone is here ­ and on the job for Quantum Supremacy
..''quantum supremacy can be comfortably demonstrated with 49 qubits, a circuit depth exceeding 40, and a twoqubit error below 0.5%''

The Race is on ...Microsoft, Google, Intel, IBM, ....

What type of problems can we solve with a Quantum Computer
Moore Vs. Amdahl Large data set problems Needle in haystack problems ----------------------------------Protein mapping and drug interaction Earlier detection of cancer

Four Pillars and supporting areas

Quantum Communication
· Quantum Key Distribution · Quantum Random Number Generator · Fully Quantum repeater · Trusted Node Networks

Quantum Computing
· Quantum computing - stable, scalable architecture · Error Correcting, Robust Qubits · Quantum memory · Demonstrating Quantum Speedup

Quantum simulation
· Quantum Simulator platform · High temperature superconductivity · Energy storage, distribution, transportation

Quantum Sensing and Metrology
· Solid State Quantum Sensors ­ ie. MRIs · Quantum Imaging devices ­ ie. Better image
resolution · Atomic and molecular interferometer devices- ie.
navigation · Quantum Metrology ­ ie. time measurements

How does it work?

Entanglement
§ It thus appears that one particle of an entangled pair "knows" what measurement has been performed on the other, and with what outcome, even though there is no known means for such information to be communicated between the particles, which at the time of measurement may be separated by arbitrarily large distances
§ Its entanglement that gives quantum computing the ability to scale exponentially, as entangled qubits can represent 4 states. The more linked qubits, exponential increase in states and thus computing power.

Quantum computing threat to cryptography
v Cryptography is based on 2 difficult math problems:
v Integer Factorization v Discrete Log
v The strength of a one way function depends on the time needed to reverse it
v Meet Shor & Grover!

When?

Impact

Power, Potential & Threat of a quantum computer
v How long do we need to keep our encryption secure?
v How long before there is a viable quantum computer that breaks our secrets?
v How long will we need to transition our network and systems to one that is quantum safe?

Power, Potential & Threat of a quantum computer
vHow long do we need to keep our encryption secure?
vHow long before there is a viable quantum computer that breaks our secrets?
vHow long will we need to transition our network and systems to one that is quantum safe?

Capture Now Decrypt Later
The predictive force of old secrets means that you can not only see what you have done, but what you're planning on doing

Phased plan of defense

Phased plan of defense

v Increase Key Length of Current Crypto used

v Investigate options for Quantum Key Distribution

v Investigate Post Quantum Algorithms

Quantum Key Distribution ­ QKD

QKD

KPN's Quantum leap with IDQuantique

NL Quantum Internet Backbone

NL Quantum Internet Backbone ­ Step 1 ­ Delft & DH

Quantum networks · New applications with connected quantum computers
§ This will be made possible using a quantum repeater

Delft

Rijswijk

Den Haag

Entanglement generation in Rijswijk

Free Space QKD

China launched the world's 1st Quantum Communications Satellite
"China is completely capable of making full use of quantum communications in a regional war. The direction of development in the future calls for using relay satellites to realize quantum communications and control that covers the entire army."
Professor Pan Jianwei University of Science and Technology of China
+10bn QIS +AliBaba

Timelines for PQ Standards

Our Quantum Labs Team within CISO
· Dedicated resources
· Commitment with universities
· Specialization · Choices in applied
research

Post Quantum Cryptography ­ Roadmap
PQ-VPN: wrapping up 1.1 WireGuard is chosen 1.1.1 faster and more secure than other VPNs 1.1.2 being merged into mainline Linux kernel 1.2 Protocol design done, minor review ongoing 1.3 Linux implementation done 1.5 Planned to publish an academia paper on this. For Jan 2019 1.5.1 Partnered with Peter Schwabe from Radboud University 1.6 Can be deployed once a Windows client is implemented 1.7 Classic McEliece and Kyber were chosen in combination to replace
the Curve25519
2. PQ-SSH: early stage 1.1 OpenSSH is chosen 1.3 Work with original designer of SSH
3. PQ-PGP: planned 1.1 OpenPGP standard is chosen 1.2 Code base to start with: TBD, can be GnuPG, OpenPGP.js, etc

Post Quantum Cryptography
v Candidate Algorithms v Cost/ Benefit Analysis
v Start now! v Think it through v Start Failing early

Post Quantum Cryptography
v Inventory of crypto assets v Think it through for
implementation readiness v Look for crypto agility and
opportunities v Create Policies for
innovation areas v Engage with HW & SW
vendors v Supplier Security Annex v Start Failing early !

THANK YOU! Questions? Comments? Stuff?
@jayabaloo

