Beat to 1337
Creating A Successful University Cyber Defense Organization
Mike Arpaia & Ted Reed
(Note: slide text will be mostly replaced by images during the presentation, this deck is designed as a handout)

This presentation...
Will show you a five step program to: 1. Plan! - make a goal for yourself and your university 2. Recruit! - reach out to the campus, find interested parties 3. Organize! - gather resources, don't sulk over no budget 4. Learn! - understand everyone's skills, abilities, and interests 5. Play! - compete, join a competition, start evaluating your
skills
...And we'll give out prizes! So try to be involved!

Problem
 Everyone wants to be a hacker but you're not going to learn how to hack in "Theoretical Computer Science 101"
 Even in information assurance classes, often times the subject matter is so high-level that you can't really get anything (practical) out of it...
 You may not have enough information security knowledge to walk up and be a pen-tester or researcher
 You may not know enough people to make a team

Our solution!
 We compiled data about past competitions for you to use, learn from, and ramp up your team to compete this coming year!
 We compiled a detailed guide from what we've learned and professionals we've sought advice from!
 We modified a collaboration software solution to help students play, organize and participate in CTFs!  We recommend a hardware solution to complement  Plan to distribute the software as an ISO image

What's in the Data?
 What we did and what works  Don't reinvent the wheel... we did it for you
 How to stop complaining about the things that are holding you back and start owning some n00bs!
 Tips on how to organize, educate and motivate a team of lazy college kids
 A calendar of national and international CTF-style competitions that you and your team can compete in!

What's in the Guide?
 Chapters and lesson plans on a wide range of information security topics including:  web application security  source code auditing  reverse engineering  exploitation  cryptology  and more!
 A list of web tutorials videos that teach everything from basic information security knowledge to super 1337 hax0r skillz

What's in the Software?
 A customized version of a web-based collaborative real-time document editor (similar to google docs) that will allow you to collaborate with your team while it mines your progress and results
 Report generating scripts that convert your mined data into fancy documents that outline your abilities and where you can improve
 An organized repository of tools, software and scripts to ensure the most efficient use of your time
 And a ton more that won't fit on this slide!

Our Experience, is this effective?

Your Input!
 Now we need your input and your help!  Our goal is to integrate these games into all university
programs, with great emphasis  We need a method and metrics to prove that competition
and games aid in comprehension and motivation
Tell us how to do this, ...and win some prizes!

