security when nanoseconds count
James Arlen, CISA DEF CON 19

disclaimer
I am employed in the Infosec industry, but not authorized to speak on behalf of my employer or clients.
Everything I say can be blamed on the voices in your head.
2

credentials
 15+ years information security specialist  staff operations, consultant, auditor, researcher  utilities vertical (grid operations, generation, distribution)  financial vertical (banks, trust companies, trading)  some hacker related stuff (founder of think|haus)
...still not an expert at anything.
3

nanoseconds...
4

Admiral Hopper says... 5
From an interview segment by Morley Safer in 1982

$=c (speed of light matters)
 distance light travels in a:  millisecond ~300km (~186 miles)  microsecond ~300m (~328 yards)  nanosecond ~30cm (~1 foot)
6

before you ask...

 This is a talk about... $$

 I'm not going to mention any of those things on your buzz-word bingo card:

 SCADA

 APT

 PCI - DSS

 wikileaks

 (anti-|lulz)sec

 hacktivism

7

 ...insert more here.

finance at DEF CON?

 You know it!

 DEF CON is all about offensive and defensive techniques and technologies

 Sometimes, knowing that a vulnerability exists to be exploited helps to focus attention.

 Sometimes, people like me tell you things that

sound completely crazy but have a history of

coming true.

8

trading history

 1200s - Commodity and Debt trading

 1500s - Inter-market trading

 1600s - Equity trading

 early 1800s - Reuters uses carrier pigeons

 late 1800s - electronic ticker tape (market data feeds) become widespread

 mid 1900s - quotation systems (next price rather than last price) become widespread

 late 1900s - computers are used to maintain the records

of the exchange

9

 early 2000s - computers begin trading with each other without human intervention

definitions
 high speed trading: committing trades on a scale faster than human interactive speeds
 algorithmic trading: trades based on the mathematical result of incoming information from external sources (news, market data, etc.)
10

arbitrage
 the practice of taking advantage of a price difference between two or more markets: striking a combination of matching deals that capitalize upon the imbalance, the profit being the difference between the market prices.
 in space - between two geographically separated markets
 in time - between the moment information is available and the moment information is widely known
11

time

 when markets were new (middle of last millennium) trade times were measured at a very human scale

 late 1800s brought trade times to minutes  1900s brought trade times to seconds  2000s bring trade times in 100s of
microseconds

 Future trade times may well involve

12

tachyon emissions

architecture
13

how fast is fast?
 seconds: you have no position  milliseconds: you lose nearly every time  sub-millisecond: big players regularly beat you  100s of microseconds: you're a bit player and
missing a lot
 10s of microseconds: you're usually winning
14

predictability
 Almost as important as sheer speed is predictable speed.
 Enemies are: jitter, packet loss, inefficient protocols (tcp)
 Dropped packet is dropped cash
15

proximity
 Proximity relieves many of the speed/latency/ jitter effects
 You're on the LAN, not the MAN or the WAN
16

latency costs $
 latency has a $$cost associated with it measurable and therefore fundable 17

missing?
18

oh crap.
19

dude, where's my firewall?
 no firewalls...  they add latency (a lot of latency)  latency costs $  risk < cost < profit
20

acl me please?
 no acls  they add latency  (most) switches can't cut through switch
while acls are on
 risk < cost < profit
21

harden this...
 no (meaningful) system hardening  reduced system loading (stripped bare)  largely custom interfacing code
(ethernet / infiniband / PCIe)
 and the usual complaints about maintainability and problem resolution
22

Specialized Systems
23

threat modelling
 we know what's missing in our usual suite of controls
 how do we describe it?  how do we determine what is a reasonable
threat to build protective measures against?
24

THREAT: vendors
 You're trusting that the marketing slick is what you'll get.
 You're trusting that they haven't hired any bad guys. 25

MAYBE: vendors
 How about a vendor developer who alters the patches you receive so that the Precision Time Protocol (PTPv2 - 802.1AS) has a different concept of a microsecond from the one everyone else is using? http://www.ieee802.org/1/pages/802.1as.html
26

THREAT: developers
 In most algo-trading, the developer isn't a traditional developer with all of the usual SDLC controls
 The developer is probably a trader or a trader underling who has live access to the production algo engine and can make onthe-fly changes
27

YES: Developers
 Sergey Aleynikov July 3, 2009 http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2009/07/aleynikov/  32 MEGABYTES of code from Goldman Sachs  sentenced to 97 months in prison (8 years 1 month) and $12,500 fine http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=123550517320 28

THREAT: the insider
 not *that* kind of insider  how do you deal with a trader (or
administrator) who is utilizing access to market data networks or exchange networks to cause negative effects on other participants?
29

YES: Traders

 Samarth Agrawal April 16, 2010 http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2010/04/ bankerarrested/
 several hundred pages of code from Societe Generale

 sentenced to 3 years

in prison + 2 years

supervised release +

deportation

30

THREAT: the market

 This is an odd kind of technical threat

 Can the market itself cause issues with your systems?

 malformed messages

 transaction risk scrutiny

 compromised systems

31

YES: Market

 2010-05-06 - DJIA drops 900 points in minutes -- THE FLASH CRASH

 Report from Nanex

32

http://www.nanex.net/20100506/FlashCrashAnalysis_Part1-1.html

Ed Felten's Summary

1. Some market participants sent a large number of quote requests to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) computers.

2. The NYSE normally puts outgoing price quotes into a queue before they are sent out. Because of the high rate of requests, this queue backed up, so that some quotes took a (relatively) long time to be sent out.

3. A quote lists a price and a time.The NYSE determined the price at the time the quote was put into the queue, and timestamped each quote at the time it left the queue.When the queues backed up, these quotes would be "stale", in the sense that they had an old, no-longer-accurate price --- but their timestamps made them look like up-to-date quotes.

4. These anomalous quotes confused other market participants, who falsely concluded that a stock's price on the NYSE differed from its price on other exchanges.This misinformation destabilized the market.

5. The faster a stock's price changed, the more out-of-kilter the NYSE

33

quotes would be. So instability bred more instability, and the market

dropped precipitously.

https://freedom-to-tinker.com/blog/felten/stock-market-flash-crash-attack-bug-or-gamesmanship

questioning trust
 is it even possible to trust within this framework?
 how to ensure that you monitor the threats? 34

traditional security fails
 100,000 times too slow  unwilling to learn that this is a
fundamentally different world
 still focused on checkbox compliance
35

answer the hard one - later
 how to secure custom everything?  how to be fast enough  how to make the case that security efforts
reduce risk and preclude disaster
36

do something!
 I'm not talking about hard stuff like code review, custom application level firewalls, mysterious FPGA stuff...
 Party like it's 1999 -NETWORK SECURITY BASICS
 even a little bit of Layer 4 goodness would help
37

ITSecurity:TNG
 where's the next next generation...  juniper and cisco are a start...  weird severely custom stuff is a start...  why aren't we aren't keeping up?
38

Well, thanks. What now?
39

DO ANYTHING
 at this point - step up - do anything  it sounds so terrible to say that but even
developing an architectural understanding is better than nothing
 make friends and influence people
40

DO ANYTHING
 you're on the record as saying that you'd choose performance over security... http://www.darkreading.com/vulnerability-management/167901026/security/perimeter-security/231002280/most-it-security-prosdisabling-security-functions-in-favor-of-network-speed.html (July 21, 2011) 41

product vendors...
 time to challenge your vendors  you want more than checkboxes  there are other markets besides
credit card compliance
 there is money to spend on whatever exotic thing you want to develop
42

product vendors...
 Some product vendors are getting this.  Most aren't.  Because we're "not asking for it"!?!
43

risk / process / policy / grc
 work with your business folks  they understand risk - probably better than you do  they have a different tolerance for risk  understand how to use their knowledge to help
you make good decisions
 do not blindly follow dogmatic statements
44

risk / process / policy / grc
 You're not going to be able to change their minds about the cost of latency.
 You can work with them to change your understanding of how to do things.
 Just because you did it that way last year doesn't mean that's still the best option. 45

compliance
 IT compliance people, meet the financial compliance people - you have things to talk about.
46

compliance

 The SEC is taking an active interest

 July 26, 2011 announcement of the Large Trader Reporting Rule (13h-1) http://sec.gov/news/press/ 2011/2011-154.htm

 There is more to come - other regulators are

watching.

47

in the trenches
ORIGINAL RESEARCH
48

in the trenches
 understand your business partners' needs  look for solutions  build PoC rigs to test
49

in the trenches
 encourage vendors to get with it  spend time looking at the truly weird stuff  be prepared for the continued downward
pressure on transaction times
50

Don't Panic
51

Q &A
twitter: @myrcurial james.arlen@pushthestack.com
52

Credits, Links and Notices

All of you,
Thanks: The Dark Tangent & the DEF CON team,
My Friends, My Family

Colophon:

twitter, wikipedia, fast music, caffeine, my lovely wife and hackerish children, blinky lights, shiny things, angst, modafinil & altruism.

Me:

http://myrcurial.com http://securosis.com

http://doinginfosecright.com http://liquidmatrix.org

Chicago Board of Trade Image: Daniel Schwen

Credits: IBM Mainframe Image: ChineseJetPilot New York Stock Exchange Image: Randy Le'Moine Photography

Toronto Stock Exchange Image: Jenny Lee Silver

53

http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.5/ca/

