How Do Cyber Insurers View the World
 Matt Prevost
 Cyber Product Manager, Chubb

Adam Smith, The Wealth of Nations, 1776
"...the chance of loss is frequently undervalued, and scarce ever valued more than it is worth, we may learn from a very moderate profit of insurers..."
"in order to make insurance...a trade at all...the common premium must be sufficient to compensate for losses, to pay the expenses of management and to afford such a profit as might
"the person who pays no more than this evidently pays no more than the real value of the risk, or the lowest price at which he can reasonably expect to insure it."
"many people despise the risk too much to pay for it..."
"sea risk is more alarming to the greater part of people, and the proportion of ships insured to those not insured is much greater...
"many fail however, at all seasons, and even in time of war, without insurance"...

`Underwriting` was working...and ships had smooth sailing...

Until American ships didn't have protection in late 1770s....

Insurance History 101 (Lessons Learned)

 Fire Insurance*
- "New Factors" Phase
- 1837: First industry classification and new factors were required. Mutuals and those that focused on `knowledge, inspection and improvements'
- 1853: Proofs of loss established  Many mistakes were made in this
period, because there was little cooperation, but still there was a gradual approach toward better conditions and a larger and more comprehensive development.
 "Cooperations" phase (post civil war, Chicago/Boston fires)
 Conditions were very unsatisfactory; rates were low, and prosperity for the companies was not very apparent. Special agent has scope change beyond that of just handling losses.
 Fire insurance had been going through an evolution, and step by step, the scope had become broader and better calculated to assist the business development of the country.

 Cyber Insurance
 What can we learn?

*Historical Study of Fire Insurance in the United States F. C. Oviatt (Sep., 1905)

Market GWP (2018 Dollars) Predominant Loss Driver
Other Perils Insured
Cat Perils Excluded/Controlled? Cat Event Geography Affected Insureds (Claims) Loss (2018 Dollars) Insolvencies Percent of Insured Losses Paid Prior Years' Profits Erased

Property (last century) $40M Fire
Quake, Many More
Yes 1906 San Francisco Earthquake San Francisco Area 100,000 $4B (100x GWP) 14+ 76% 47 Years

*Historical Study of Fire Insurance in the United States F. C. Oviatt (Sep., 1905)

Cyber (today) $4B Data Breaches & Business Int.
Interruptions, Cyber Extortion
Yes 2017 examples... Global. TBD TBD TBD TBD TBD

...but a cyber insurance underwriter's algorithm is too new... right?
0%

400%

"Cyber insurance doesn't pay claims" is to cyber insurance as "my cyber security tool didn't work so none do" is to Cyber security.

But cyber insurance doesn't pay?

Back to Cyber Insurance...what do cyber underwriters think about?

2018

2018
 How do cyber underwriters `view' companies?

2018

2018

2018

2018
Pricing Evolution

2018

Importance of Modeling
IBRN weekly (8/24/2017)

Evolution within cyber underwriting
 Actual strategies proving successful and unsuccessful  More `tools' at our disposal
 Aggregation  Account specific  More insights into events themselves across the market  Attritional Losses (the everyday risks)  Importance of Education  Services to mitigate risk  Advancing transparency of claims and underwriting process itself  Back-casting seeemingly systemic events  NotPetya  Wannacry  Third party distributed

