GDPArrrrr: Using Privacy Laws to Steal Identities
James Pavur
DPhil Student & Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University Cybersecurity Center for Doctoral Training

Cyber(Law) Kill Chain

RECONNAISSANCE WEAPONIZATION

DELIVERY

EXPLOITATION

EXFILTRATION

RECONNAISSANCE

Exploitable Properties of GDPR

Fear
Huge fines and reputational costs

Pressure
Proscribed time schedules and
deadlines

Ambiguity
Flexible terminology to ensure broad applicability

Humanity
Process complexity keeps humans in the
loop

Target: Right of Access (Ch. III, Sec. 2)
User identifies point of contact (Art. 13.1a) User requests personal data (Art. 15) Org. responds within 1 calendar month (Art. 12.3) Org. provides data in machine-readable format (Art. 15.3)

WEAPONIZATION

Threat model (OSINT)
In addition to my name, this email address, and the postal address indicated above, my accounts may be affiliated with the following identifiers:
- Name: [TARGET FULL NAME] - Email: [ATTACKER'S EMAIL] - Email: [FIRSTNAME.LASTNAME@gmail.com] - Email: [OTHER TARGET EMAILS (e.g. from company website, data breach pastes)] - Phone: [TARGET PHONE(S)]

Problem: What if they ask for ID?
The controller should use all reasonable measures to verify the identity of a data subject who requests access, in particular in the context of online services and online identifiers. A controller should not retain personal data for the sole purpose of being able to react to potential requests.
- Recital 64 of GDPR

Problem: What if they ask for ID?
The controller should use all reasonable measures to verify the identity of a data subject who requests access, in particular in the context of online services and online identifiers. A controller should not retain personal data for the sole purpose of being able to react to potential requests.
- Recital 64 of GDPR

Make "reasonable" workable
If you need any more information from me, or a reasonable fee, please let me know as soon as possible. If you require identity documents to complete these requests, provided that the sensitivity of
these documents is proportional to the data I have already consented to allow your organization to store, I
am willing to provide these documents via a secure, online portal as soon as possible.
It may be helpful for you to know that a request for information under the GDPR should be responded to within 1 month. If you do not normally deal with these requests, please pass this letter to your Data Protection Officer. If you need advice on dealing with this request, the Information Commissioner Office can assist you and can be contacted on 0303 123 1113 or at ico.org.uk

Dictate the terms of engagement
If you need any more information from me, or a reasonable fee, please let me know as soon as possible. If you require identit y documents to complete these requests, provided that the sensitivity of these documents is proportional to the data I have alr eady
consented to allow your organization to store, I am willing to provide these documents via a secure, online portal as
soon as possible. It may be helpful for you to know that a request for information under the GDPR should be responded to within 1 month. If you do not normally deal with these requests, please pass this letter to your Data Protection Officer. If you need advice on dealing with this request, the Information Commissioner Office can assist you and can be contacted on 0303 123 1113 or at ico.org.uk

DELIVERY

Initial Responses
"Not Liable" 5%
Ignored Request
23%
Handled Request
72%

EXPLOITATION

Ultimate Response
"No Data"
5%

Ignored GDPR
13%
Accepted Weak ID
16%

Deleted Account
3%
Required "Strong" ID
39%

Gave PII 24%

HIGH VARIATION IN ULTIMATE OUTCOMES
OF THE 83 ORGANIZATIONS
WHICH HAD "VICTIM'S"
PII....

12
Type of ID Requested
10 8 6 4 2 0

NO CLEAR STANDARD FOR
"REASONABLE" ID VERIFICATION

A Rejected Request?

Never Give Up!

Never Give Up!

EXFILTRATION

Exfiltration: Low Sensitivity (19 instances)
Data Brokers & Advertising
(e.g. criminal history)

Account Profiles &
Enumeration
(e.g. usernames)

Simple Behavioral Data
(e.g. movie bookings)

Exfiltration: Medium Sensitivity (48 instances)
Unique Behavioral Data
(e.g. past rail tickets)

Weak Identifiers
(e.g. phone numbers)

Device and Location Data
(e.g. MAC/IP)

Exfiltration: High Sensitivity (10 instances)
Strong Identifiers
(e.g. SSN)

Exfiltration: High Sensitivity (10 instances)

Strong Identifiers
(e.g. SSN)

Financial Data
(e.g. CC digits)

Exfiltration: High Sensitivity (10 instances)

Strong Identifiers
(e.g. SSN)

Financial Data
(e.g. CC digits)

Credentials
(e.g. passwords and hashes)

[...]
REMEDIATION

Suggested Fixes:
Companies

Require account login if available
Outsource eIDV if beyond internal capabilities
Just say no to suspicious GDPR requests

Suggested Fixes:
Legislators

Re-assure companies that they can reject requests in goodfaith
Clarify appropriate forms of identity
Provide government-mediated identity verification services

Suggested Fixes:
Individuals

Be pro-active about data hygiene
Ask about past GDPR requests in your name
Don't trust knowledge-based authentication from unsolicited calls

Privacy laws should enhance privacy, not endanger it.
Questions? james@pavursec.com

Black Hat Sound Bytes
1. Poorly considered privacy legislation can actually endanger privacy.
2. The GDPR can be abused by social engineers to steal sensitive information through Right of Access requests.
3. Adversarial audits of privacy laws can uncover exploitable security bugs in "development" rather than "production."

