WHITEPAPER

Unfortunately, there are no magic bullets in cybersecurity, and SOAR is no exception. Adding security automation and o rchestration is a game-changer, but it's not foolproof. To get the most out of your SOAR platform, you need to be deliberate in how you implement and operate it. Otherwise, you can miss out on some potential benefits right from the start.

Our team has helped organizations effectively deploy and manage SOAR all around the world. Based on that experience, we've come up with 10 golden rules for SOAR buyers. If you follow these, you'll set yourself up to get the most value out of your investment in security orchestration and give your team a powerful tool in their fight against cybersecurity threats.


START WITH THE MOST IMPORTANT USE CASES.

You'll eventually have SOAR playbooks for all your use cases, but it is wise to think carefully about which ones you start with when you implement SOAR. Picking the right use cases will give you some "quick wins" that will prove value to stakeholders, increase buy-in among users, and save your security team time every day, freeing them up to build out the next use case.


UNDERSTAND YOUR PROCESSES.

As Bill Gates famously said, "automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency." Adding SOAR can be especially tricky if you lack understanding of the security processes you are augmenting or replacing with automation. Having a good process flow for how you handle various incidents will make implementing automation and orchestration far easier, as the tasks involved can be broken down into fully automatic, semi-automated, or manual.


IF IT'S NOT A PAIN POINT, DON'T AUTOMATE IT.

Talk to the different stakeholders in your organization to figure out what the pain points are at different levels. This will help you determine what needs to be automated, especially in the early stages of a SOAR implementation. The temptation is to try and automate everything you can, but if it isn't a pain point, it can probably stay manual for now.


TAKE STOCK OF YOUR EXISTING TOOLS.

The power of SOAR is going to come from how it integrates with your other tools. Therefore, having a strong understanding of your tools is an important prerequisite for adding SOAR. What tools will you want to integrate? Where are the gaps in your existing stack? Does the team that will control the SOAR tool control all the other relevant tools, or will you need to work with other teams?


TEST YOUR AUTOMATION.

Blindly automating tasks can lead to bad SOAR implementations and a lot of frustration in the SOC. Playbooks tasks can be checked by running playbooks in a test mode that allows the operators to see how full automation functions versus requiring an approval process to vet the task before allowing the SOAR tool to complete it. It's not always best to automate everything, and testing is how you can figure that out.


NOT ALL INTEGRATIONS ARE CREATED EQUAL.

Every SOAR vendor promises hundreds of integrations, but buyers should make sure those integrations have the features and ongoing attention that are necessary to support their objectives. Many tools will have public APIs that allow for a certain level of integration and actions; however, there may be APIs that are available only to vendor partners that can further enhance how the SOAR functions with that tool. Not every SOAR vendor will have the same level of access to a given tool.


THINK BEYOND THE SECURITY TEAM.

While its most obvious benefits will be seen by SOC and CSIRT teams, SOAR has applications well beyond security. Think big! Consider the teams that are impacted by security incidents, collaborate with the security team, or could benefit from orchestration. The same goes for considering who owns the processes that might be automated. For example, is the SOC allowed to update firewall rules, or is that the NOC's job?


PLAN FOR A RAINY DAY.

It's unrealistic to think that any network or company is "unhackable". Make sure your SOAR platform can track and audit all actions, whether they're automated or manually performed by an analyst. Having a robust audit trail means it will be a lot easier to answer the hard questions from management should the need arise.


KNOW WHAT INTERNAL CODING RESOURCES YOU HAVE AVAILABLE.

Some SOAR platforms put a significant burden on the users to write code for integrations and playbooks. That's fine if you have talented coders on your team with extra time on their hands, but how many security teams fit that description? If you don't want your SOC team to become a parttime development team, look for a SOAR tool with codeless or low-code integrations and playbooks. This will save you time and give your users full control over the platform, regardless of coding ability.

MONITOR, LEARN, IMPROVE.

The threat landscape is constantly changing, so no SOC should expect their playbooks to stay constant. A good SOAR tool will allow for fast and easy changes to keep up with new integrated tools, incident types, or processes. Leverage the analytics provided by your SOAR tool and take an active role in refining your operations over time.


D3 Security has been at the forefront of security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) since before the term was even invented. In this time, we've helped the largest companies in the world and early adopters from virtually every industry transform their security operations, incident
response, and threat hunting.

This depth of experience has allowed to D3 to build the most comprehensive and scalable SOAR platform on the planet. It has also given our team members unmatched SOAR-specific expertise, which allows us to provide you--the person evaluating or buying SOAR--the best help possible.

We would love to discuss your automation strategy and show you how our product can help you achieve your goals.
WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT D3?
JOIN THE NEXT XGEN SOAR DEMO

Read how a FinTech 
 client increased their 
 response speed 10X

DOWNLOAD
Get the conversation started:
Email info@d3security.com
 Follow @D3Security on Twitter


Read our XGEN SOAR Key Features Guide DOWNLOAD
Connect with D3 Security on LinkedIn Visit us online at D3Security.com


