The 2022 Attack Resistance Report
A HackerOne Security Survey

44%

of respondents are not confident they can close the attack resistance gap

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Table of Contents

Executive Summary

1

Key Findings

2

Elements of the Growing Attack Resistance Gap

3

1. Attack Surface Management Is Not Enough

5

2. Infrequent Testing and Assessments

6

3. Disconnected Point Testing Solutions are Unable to Identify All Risks 7

4. Scarcity of Security Talent

8

An Outside-In Approach to Attack Resistance Management

9

Organizational Benefits

10

FAQs

11

Starting with Attack Resistance Management

12

Appendix

13

Survey Methodology

13

Key Survey Questions

14

Section 1: Attack Surface Management Section

14

Section 2: Security Testing Program Section

14

Section 3: Security Testing Tools Section

14

Section 4: Security and Development Team Skills Section

15

About HackerOne

16

Endnotes

17

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Executive Summary
Several trends in the way we work and consume technology have resulted in an ever-expanding cyberattack surface for organizations of all sizes. Comprehensive digital transformation across enterprises, the rise in cloud adoption, the normalization of working from anywhere, and Internet of Things (IoT) initiatives have resulted in an explosion of new applications, along with an increased rate of iterations and updates. In January 2022, HackerOne surveyed 800+ company IT executives across American and European organizations to understand the impact of this rapidly changing application landscape on an organization's readiness to defend against cyberattacks.

Contributors to the increasing cyberattack surface:
Cloud Adoption: A Harvard Business Review Analytic Services September 2020 survey1 found that more than twothirds of respondents (69%) indicated that over 60% of their IT portfolio will reside in the cloud within two years. Work-From-Anywhere Model: An Upwork study2 projects that 73% of all teams will have remote workers by 2028. Internet of Things (IoT) growth: According to IDC,3 55.9 billion connected devices will be connected by 2025.
The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 1

KEY FINDINGS
Key Findings
Organizations today seem to be complacent in their current security measures. The survey revealed an increasing gap--the attack resistance gap--between what organizations can defend and what they need to defend. On average, 44% of those surveyed stated that they lack confidence in their ability to address the risks introduced by this gap.
Organizations mistakenly believe that Attack Surface Management is a one-stop solution for their cyber risk problems. Even though over 80% of those surveyed currently use Attack Surface Management tools, these tools typically leave blind spots and gaps. Truly understanding, observing, and controlling their organization's digital attack surface requires the management of their cybersecurity tools, as well as the skills of their talent pool, frequency of testing, and the prioritization of their application ecosystem risk levels. What is needed is Attack Resistance Management--the comprehensive management of continual human security testing on attack surfaces designed to increase the resistance to attackers.

ONLY ONE IN THREE

Services or applications are tested and assessed more often than once a year.

DISCONNECTED

A variety of tools with basic capabilities

SECURITY TOOLS that increase threat data noise.

66%

Believe their teams lack excellent security skills.

44%
on average are "less than confident" that they have the capabilities to close the attack resistance gap.
The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 2

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP
Elements of the Growing Attack Resistance Gap
We constructed the survey to capture technology professionals' assessments of their cyberattack readiness strengths and weaknesses across these four components. When combined, the results reveal a substantial attack resistance gap.
Scarcity of security talent and infrequent testing are the primary drivers of security weakness. These, along with an incomplete understanding of the attack surface, compound an organization's inability to prevent and manage cyberattacks proactively.
This attack resistance gap materializes due to the cumulative impact of these four components:

100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0%

Attack Resistance
Gap
Attack Surface Coverage

Actual Attack Surface

Incomplete Knowledge of Attack Surface

Testing Frequency Does Not Keep Pace with App Updates

Siloed and Inadequate Testing Products

Untested or Unavailable Skills

Comprehensive visibility and monitoring are almost impossible, and a company's cyber surface includes inherited APIs and microservices. Understanding where the critical flaws live within the attack surface is critical but complicated.

It is hard to keep up with development cycles; the lag between deploying a flaw and finding and fixing it introduces risk.

Most companies don't have the solutions and expertise to interpret disconnected tool and scanner results. The multiple results returned often miss critical application security flaws-- where most vulnerabilities are.

Hiring security talent that understands AWS, Kubernetes, Javascript, custom APIs, and your legacy applications is a challenge. Keeping internal teams trained and battle-tested is equally challenging.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 3

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP
Key Components for Attack Resistance
74% 70% 63%
74%

45%

57%

Total

Attack Surface Management/ Monitoring

Security Testing Program

Security Testing Tools

Security and Dev Team Skills

Organizations use four main components to resist attacks on their digital asset landscape including attack surface management/monitoring, security testing programs, security testing tools, and security /development team skills. Even using all these components, there remains a significant portion of the attack surface with unknown risk. Together, respondents believe that 63% of their entire attack surface is ready to resist attack. That leaves an attack resistance gap of 37%.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 4

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP

1. Attack Surface Management Is Not Enough
The attack surface for an organization encompasses infrastructure, software, apps, and devices, and the extended supply chain. The attack surface for manufacturing, healthcare, automotive, logistics, and retail industries extends further with global partner, supplier, and dealer operations. In addition, larger enterprises, governments, and especially global conglomerates have much more complex attack surfaces.
As the attack surface expands, so does security responsibility across four main teams--Development, Operations, IT, and Security. In this new world, the diversity of responsibility can result in disconnected security actions. Even as organizations invest in implementing DevSecOps practices to deploy more secure applications, gaps persist.

Expanded Security Responsibility

OPS New Clouds, New Misconfigs, "Caused"

DEV New Apps, New Flaws, "Created"

IT New CVEs, New Gaps, "Inherited"

SEC New Tech, New Skills,
"Outstripped"

SUPPLIERS, SERVICES, SOFTWARE

Development teams are creating new applications, versions, fixes, and features faster than ever before-- inadvertently creating flaws more rapidly than ever.

Operations is setting up environments to run these new applications, often across different cloud vendors with different underlying technologies--causing misconfigurations to multiply.

IT is inheriting more vulnerabilities while administering software and SaaS applications. More Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) were submitted in 2020 than ever before. Often, IT teams inherit these CVEs through acquisitions and partner integrations.

Security teams, already short on skills, are trying to keep up with new code, architectures, and technologies. They also need help filling knowledge gaps and keeping their skills up-to-date.

One-third of large enterprise respondents say they observe less than 75% of their attack surface. Almost 20% of respondents believe that more than half of their attack surface is unknown or not observable.
Survey Methodology: Large Enterprises = 5,000+ employees

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 5

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP
2. Infrequent Testing and Assessments
Looking at industry data collected by various third parties, the average large enterprise uses at least 1,295 cloud services,4 110 SaaS applications,5 and 464 custom applications.6 That is a total of more than 1,800 applications in each enterprise. In addition, enterprise business and consumer applications are updated multiple times a year, often weekly or monthly.
And yet, as per the HackerOne survey, only one in three services or applications are tested and assessed more than once a year.
Shortcomings in security testing programs such as poor pentesting and security assessment practices are the number one contributor to increased enterprise risk. Almost 60% of the HackerOne survey respondents run pentests and assessments much less than needed considering the average number of applications.
Even while assuming that not all of the 1,800 applications are critical, high priority, or even regularly used, these statistics cause alarm. A vast majority of applications and services are not reviewed, leaving organizations' cyber surfaces exposed to malintentioned intrusions. The lesser-used but vulnerable applications and services likely become the easiest entry points for a cyberattack. Continuously changing requirements and priorities and technical and security debt in legacy system environments are listed as the top two challenges for DevSecOps teams in the survey.

26%

On Google Play, 26% of the top 1,000 apps are updated a minimum of once per week.7

22%

On the Apple Store, 22% of the top 1,000 apps are updated a minimum of once per week.8

62%

On Google Play, 62% of the top 1,000 apps are updated a minimum of once per month.7

68%

On the Apple Store, 68% of the top 1,000 apps are updated a minimum of once per month.8

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 6

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP

3. Disconnected Point Testing Solutions are Unable to Identify All Risks

To increase attack resistance, organizations need a comprehensive, integrated process supported by a platform that enables in-depth and intelligent data analysis that includes reconnaissance, risk ranking, and triage.

Security Tools Used During the Development Process

51%

50%

45%

42%

41%

4%

Scanning infrastructure as code (e.g., Teraform, Kubernets)

Dynamic application security testing (DAST) tools

Code scanning for package dependency vulnerabilities (SCA)

Static application security testing (SAST) tools

Interactive application security testing (IAST) tools

None of the avbove

Most organizations use scanners or multiple point solutions to help understand their attack surface and don't have the expertise to interpret the results. The silos of application security data can inundate the security operations team and the development and operations teams. Understanding prioritized threats with impact analysis is essential to stop the attacks with the most significant potential for damage.

Survey respondents believe that their current security testing and scanning tools have the following top five shortcomings:

Organizational silos between development, operations, and security

Security capabilities of cloud platforms are inadequate

Security testing/scanning tools are too slow

Lack of security tool support for languages, frameworks, etc.

25%

Security testing/scanning tools are too noisy

23%

33% 31% 29%

A majority of the survey respondents also leveraged various processes to drive collaboration between development, operations, and security teams--these included discussions in cross-functional councils, security best practices, and training portals. Security and testing tools and increased security process collaboration across departments are adequate to identify and manage known risks. But today's cybercriminals are innovative and constantly improving their skills. To stay ahead of future threats, organizations need to be more creative. Working with security researchers who think like bad actors can help organizations reduce exploitability and stay ahead of new and unknown threats.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 7

ELEMENTS OF THE GROWING ATTACK RESISTANCE GAP

4. Scarcity of Security Talent

Over 80% of respondents were concerned about the availability of the right skills.

Organizations of all sizes face the challenges of hiring skilled and experienced talent. They also struggle to keep their teams up to date on the latest in technology and cybersecurity threats. Importantly, although they have access to developers and security people who have some experience in handling the security demands of cloud architectures, they report lower levels of expertise in secure cloud-native development and container technologies.
New and Specialized Skills

ClouCdloaurdcahirtcehcituercetu, AreW, AS,WASz,uArezu, GreC,PGCP SecSuerecucrleoucdlo-unda-tnivaetidveevdeelovpemlopenmtent ConCtoanintearintecr htencohlongoileosgies

54%54%

50%50%

43%434%2%42%

36%36%

36%36%

28%28%

29%29% 25%25%

34%343%0%30% 20%20%

Concerns Regarding Security Personnel Recruitment and Staffing

MajoMr aCjonr cCeornncern

Big CBoigncCeornncern

MedMiuemdiCuomncCeornncern

SmaSllm/NaollC/NooncCeornncern

17%17% 27%27%

16%16% 33%33%

18%18% 31%31%

18%18% 29%29%

34%34%
22%22%
LackLoafcqkuoaf lqifuieadlified candciadnadteidsawteitshwith any akney skeecyusreitcyurity skillskisillseaisdlienagdtiong to outsoouutrscoinugrc. ing.

33%33%

33%33%

36%36%

19%19%

18%18%

17%17%

Can'Ctafinn'dt feindouegnhough

Can'Ctafinn'dt feindouegnhough

peoppleeowphleowuhnodeurnsdtaenrsdtand secusreitcyutreitsyteterss/ters/

the ctohm e cpolemxpitliexsiotifecslouf cdl,ouds, ecusreitcyurreitsyeraerscehaerrcshers

hybrhidybcrloiducdl,oaundd, and

to adtoeqaudaetqeulyately

multmi-ucltoiu-cdloseucdusreitcyurity asseasssstehsrseathtrreisakt.risk.

requriereqmuierenmtse. nts.

Can'Ctafinn'dt feindouegnhough peoppleeowphleowhhaovehave expeerxiepnecrieeinncSeeicnuSreitcyurity OperOapteiornasti/oTnhsr/eTahtreat remeredmiaetidoina.tion.

As organizations drive greater digitization, enable more business operations via apps, and grow with more complex technology partnerships, they have a greater demand for cloud-native and container skill sets. This lack of trained personnel is also a factor in Europe, particularly France and Germany.

U.SU. .S.

U.KU. .K.

FraFnrcaence

GerGmeramnyany

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 8

AN OUTSIDE-IN APPROACH TO ATTACK RESISTANCE MANAGEMENT
An Outside-In Approach to Attack Resistance Management
Many organizations believe that having the right tools to monitor their cybersecurity attack surface is sufficient for managing risk. However, taking a multi-pronged approach to reducing the attack resistance gap can increase collaboration across development, IT, operations, and security teams to minimize risk. Including creative thinking from ethical hackers can augment this strategy further, with an outside-in view of potential application weaknesses.

SEC

DEV

Security Talent Management

Reconnaissance and Risk Ranking

Skills and Intel Development

Testing and Triage

IT
Continuous Testing and Improvement

OPS

Collaborative, continuous testing and continual improvement processes need to be supported by four specific areas:
Security Talent Management
Expand the access to experienced, trained, and vetted people and align the right skills with the right projects.
Reconnaissance and Risk Ranking
Understand the real-world exploitability and tackle the riskiest assets first with continuous monitoring and prioritization.
Triage and Testing
Attack surface testing methodologies focused on new applications, updates, compliance, retesting, and validation that includes breaking down information and process silos and maximizing your investments in existing security tools.
Skills and Intel Development
Implement multi-disciplinary upskilling with partnerships, communities, and services.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 9

ORGANIZATIONAL BENEFITS

Organizational Benefits

When implemented, Attack Resistance Management triggers a continuous cycle of improvement. Organizations can better understand their attack surface, perform tests that align with their needs, schedule tests for the most critical assets, and use test outcomes to hone in on the ideal skills required. This more qualified and trained team can then have the capability to identify critical assets and issues and adequately test them. It's a virtuous circle that reduces risk and strengthens the security team's skills.
Going beyond basic monitoring and testing and encompassing all the necessary factors to reliably handle Attack Resistance Management yields benefits that enable lower risk.

Before Attack Resistance Management

With Attack Resistance Management

 Incomplete knowledge of the attack surface with unknown risks.
 Insufficient pentesting and security assessments that are outnumbered by code updates.
 Scanning tools provide basic reports of known vulnerabilities, with high false-positive rates and an overabundance of information that is not easily actionable.
 Lack of skills needed to test applications written and deployed in mixed environments.
 Broken processes from monitoring to development to testing. Developer teams cannot learn from code scans.

 Improved knowledge of attack surface assets, prioritized by risk.
 Pentesting and security assessments are on-demand, accessible directly by development teams.
 Security testing with a community of hackers provides more high criticality vulnerabilities and a lower volume of reports.
 On-demand hacker talent with almost any set of skills required.
 Developers learn from vulnerability reports, reducing repetition of mistakes in the codebase and improving DevSecOps collaboration.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 10

FAQS
FAQs

How is Attack Resistance Management different from Attack Surface Management?
What is the role of hackers in the Attack Resistance Management strategy?
Can I adopt an Attack Resistance Management model while protecting my current investments in Attack Surface Management tools?
How can I best understand real-world exploitability and tackle the riskiest assets first?

Attack Resistance Management goes beyond Attack Surface Scanning and basic risk ranking. It delivers risk-ranked remediation recommendations and analysis of attack surface gaps by highlyskilled security experts.
Hackers can find new and unknown blind spots that automated tools miss, by thinking like cybercriminals to detect vulnerabilities.
Yes, Attack Resistance Management is built on the foundation of expertise, openness, and transparency. It fully complements your current tools investments and you can leverage scans from your existing tools.
Using Attack Resistance Management will provide prioritized results by analyzing your asset landscape.

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 11

STARTING WITH ATTACK RESISTANCE MANAGEMENT
Starting with Attack Resistance Management

Integrate with the most popular communications, development, and security tools.
Learn more

Experience security that scales and adapts with your cloud initiatives.
Learn more

Gain complete visibility of your attack surface to triage and prioritize your vulnerabilities.
Learn more

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 12

APPENDIX

Appendix
Survey Methodology
The HackerOne survey was conducted in January 2022. The sample was provided by Schlesinger Group, a research panel company. Over eight hundred panel respondents provided their perspectives and these respondents were from enterprises across the U.S. and Europe. All the respondents were personas who had security decision-making authority or influence.

19% 26%

33%

23%

Size of Organization

26% 23% 33% 19%

100 ­ 499 employees 500 ­ 999 employees 1,000 ­ 4,999 employees 5,000 or more employees

24% 76%

Seniority

76% 24%

Decision Maker Influencer

Industry

3% Banking

1%

Biotech

3% Construction & Design

3% Education

4% Finance

3% Government

5% Health Care

2% Insurance

2% 11% 5% 8% 43% 4% 4%

Insurance Manufacturing Professional Services Retail/Wholesale Technology Telecommunication Other

17%

16%

50%

17%

Region

50% 17% 16% 17%

United States United Kingdom France Germany

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 13

APPENDIX

Key Survey Questions

Section 1: Attack Surface Management Section (25% of score)

Section 2: Security Testing Program Section (25% of score)

Section 3: Security Testing Tools Section (25% of score)

1.Does your company currently use attack surface management tools?
2.Which of the following best describes how often you scan your attack surface?
 Daily  Weekly  Monthly  Quarterly  Bi-annually  Annually  Less than annually  Never
3.How confident are you in understanding your attack surface?
4. Do you have a mechanism to score the security risk of assets you discover in your attack surface management process?

6.Do you have a vulnerability management program?
7.Do you have an application security program?
8.Do you practice DevSecOps?
9.Approximately how many penetration tests do you conduct a year?
10.Approximately how many security assessments do you conduct a year?
11.How much do you agree or disagree with the following statements?
 We currently feed ASM results into our testing process  We currently feed information to improve the processes  We currently feed information to improve the security
effectiveness

5.Approximately, how much of your attack surface is unknown or not observable?

12.Do you use vulnerability management scanning tools?
13.In the development process, which of the following are used? Select all that apply.
 Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tools  Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) tools  Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) tools  Scanning infrastructure as code (eg Terraform, Kubernetes)  Code scanning for package dependency vulnerabilities (SCA)

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 14

APPENDIX

Section 4: Security and Development Team Skills Section (25% of score)

14.How do you use ethical hackers, pentesters, and security researchers? Select all that apply.
 Pentests  Vulnerability Disclosure Program (VDP)  Bug Bounty  Security Assessments  Red, blue or purple teaming  Other (please specify)  We do not use any of these
15.How often do you run red team, blue team, or purple team exercises?
16. H ow would you rate your security team's skill levels in the following areas?
17.How do you enable collaboration across development and security teams to achieve `security by design'? Select all that apply.
 Cross-functional council where security experts are available to discuss best practices and share knowledge
 Learning portal with specific curriculum where developers/ engineers can self-service to gain security knowledge
 Including security best practices in OKRs  Encourage developers to include security in their SDLC process  Other (please specify)

18.In the development process, which of the following are used? Select all that apply.
 Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tools  Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) tools  Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) tools  Scanning infrastructure as code (eg Terraform,
Kubernetes)  Code scanning for package dependency vulnerabilities
(SCA)
19.How much of a concern are each of the following regarding security personnel recruitment and staffing?
 Can't find enough people who know understand the complexities of cloud, hybrid cloud, and multi-cloud security requirements
 Can't find enough people who have experience in Security Operations/Threat remediation
 Can't find enough security testers/security researchers to adequately assess threat risk
 Lack of qualified candidates with any key security skills is leading to outsourcing

The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 15

ABOUT HACKERONE
About HackerOne
HackerOne empowers the world to build a safer internet by giving organizations access to the largest, global community of highly skilled ethical hackers. Armed with an extensive database of vulnerability trends and industry benchmarks, the hacker community mitigates cyber risk by searching, finding, and safely reporting real-world security weaknesses for organizations across industries and attack surfaces. Customers include The U.S. Department of Defense, Dropbox, General Motors, GitHub, Goldman Sachs, Google, Hyatt, Lufthansa, Microsoft, MINDEF Singapore, Nintendo, PayPal, Slack, Twitter, and Yahoo. HackerOne was ranked fifth on the Fast Company World's Most Innovative Companies list for 2020.
Learn more at HackerOne.com/AttackResistanceManagement
The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 16

ENDNOTES
Endnotes
1. Harvard Business Review: The State of Cloud-Driven Transformation 2. Upwork: Future Workforce Report 3. IDC: Worldwide Global DataSphere IoT Device and Data Forecast,
2019­2023 4. Statista: Average number of software as a service (SaaS) applications
used by organizations worldwide from 2015 to 2021 5. K2: Average Enterprise Runs 464 Custom Applications 6. Chiefmartec: The average enterprise uses 1,295 cloud services 7. 42 Matters: App Update Frequency Statistics 2022­Google Play 8. 42 Matters: App Update Frequency Statistics 2022­Apple App Store
The 2022 Attack Resistance Report: A HackerOne Security Survey | 17

