Instantly Monitor the Security Health of any Organization

How secure is your ecosystem?
Most organizations cannot answer the question, how secure are we? They don't know how susceptible their networks are to breaches and ex-filtration of personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), intellectual property, and their most important digital assets. From an "outside-in perspective," security risk factors may be better known by hackers. In addition, risks posed by third-party access to networks demand that organizations have continuous visibility into the security posture of their entire ecosystem.
"Using SecurityScorecard has clearly improved the speed of our response to security incidents in our supply chain, as well as our ability to take preventative actions in areas that really matter. SecurityScorecard allows us to effectively monitor all of our key suppliers and to better understand the maturity of their security programs using independent data.
Antero Päivänsalo, Chief Information Security Officer of Nokia

Transparent Data Collection & Accurate Scores
SecurityScorecard provides the most accurate security risk rating for any organization. The platform uses nonintrusive proprietary data collection methods, as well as trusted commercial and open-source threat feeds to quantitatively evaluate the cybersecurity posture of more than 1.6 million enterprises across 175 countries and 17 industries. Through the industry's first ever Trust Portal, SecurityScorecard provides full transparency into score methodology and data collection.
360° Visibility
SecurityScorecard's data collection process provides a robust "outside-in" perspective of the cyber health of third parties. The platform continuously monitors 10 risk factor groups, such as Network Security, DNS Health, Endpoint Security, and Application Security. This empowers organizations to easily identify and prioritize high-risk third parties for assessment and remediation, ultimately leading to a more secure environment. For an "inside-out" view, Atlas security questionnaire responses are validated against SecurityScorcard's instantly accessible ratings, providing a true 360-degree view of third-party cybersecurity risk. Additionally, organizations can integrate security ratings into their existing tools, such as a GRC or SIEM, to contextualize with information from other systems.
Collaborative Remediation
SecurityScorecard uses an A-F rating scale, so that companies can easily understand, communicate, and improve their cybersecurity posture. Clients can invite partners or vendors into the platform to assess issues and drill down into findings. Discovery and remediation workflow features enable organizations to visualize severities and threats, while SecurityScorecard's Customer Success team makes sure everyone is benefiting from the platform. Third parties are able to use risk ratings data to improve their scores. Companies with an F rating are 7.7x more likely to experience a data breach when compared to companies with an A rating.

info@securityscorecard.com 1-800-682-1707|securityscorecard.com

Forrester®
What's the total economic impact of SecurityScorecard?
198%
Three-year risk-adjusted return on investment
83%
Reduction in vendor questionnaire preparation time and effort
$823k
Increased efficiency value in risk management
$118k
Technology efficiencies and consolidation savings
Statistics found in a Forrester case study commissioned by SecurityScorecard titled: The Total Economic Impact of SecurityScorecard, June 2021.

Powerful Threat Reconnaissance
SecurityScorecard's threat intelligence capabilities and attribution engine combine to deliver actionable intelligence that enables cybersecurity and risk management teams to reduce vulnerabilities before attackers can exploit them. Threat reconnaissance answers the question that most traditional threat intelligence solutions leave unanswered: what assets are at risk and what entity do they belong to? By leveraging SecurityScorecard's platform, security teams are able to quickly identify vulnerable assets in their IT infrastructure and third-party ecosystem. Furthermore, security teams can work efficiently to proactively eliminate weaknesses and defeat threats.
Continuous Compliance
Regulators are increasingly pursuing enforcement actions against companies that cannot demonstrate and provide evidence of an effective risk management program. SecurityScorecard enables organizations to meet or exceed regulation mandates regarding continuous monitoring while simplifying the compliance process by providing features that map directly to audit requirements. For example, the platform allows users to assess cyber-related compliance with regulatory frameworks such as GDPR, CCPA, NY DFS, NIST, SIG, HIPAA, and PCI (to name a few) for your organization and your vendor ecosystem.
Return on Security Investments
SecurityScorecard's high-level dashboards and detailed reports display the most critical and common risk factors for your company and enables security professionals to drill down into issues and findings sorted by severity. With the ability to show historical performance and continued improvement, the platform allows organizations to demonstrate their return on security investments and benchmark cybersecurity performance against industry peers and competitors. Easy-to-read board level reports and workflow tools for cybersecurity assessments streamline stakeholder management. Gain additional value from existing investments by embedding security ratings into your workflows through APIs and 25+ pre-built integrations.

About SecurityScorecard SecurityScorecard helps security professionals work collaboratively to solve mission-critical, cybersecurity issues in a transparent way. The SecurityScorecard platform provides continuous, non-intrusive cyber risk monitoring of any organization and its ecosystem.
info@securityscorecard.com
1-800-682-1707|securityscorecard.com
Start responding to cybersecurity questionnaires faster. Learn more at https:// securityscorecard.com/platform/atlas.

Companies that rely on SecurityScorecard
Get your own free instant security rating today at instant.securityscorecard.com

