Building Your Hybrid Cloud Application Delivery Infrastructure
IT Professionals Share Their Progress, Challenges, and Goals

Faster Application Delivery
to ensure responsiveness and performance

Organizations

Flexibility to keep pace with changing business needs, customer demand,
and IT strategy

have high hopes

for the cloud

Lower Operational Costs
to redirect funds to innovation

Greater Visibility into end-to-end
application security and performance

But the reality proves more challenging

only
26% have been highly successful in migrating applications
to the cloud

And they're often hampered by outdated and under-performing application delivery controllers

only
34%

50%

are highly satisfied with their ADC solution

are struggling with legacy technology in application delivery

29% struggle with application security threats 28% experience application downtime 27% experience slow performance 23% face visibility and reporting challenges

Better application delivery controllers are essential to accommodate diverse hybrid/multi-cloud strategies...

74%
of organizations continue to host applications on-premises
43%
use private clouds

18%
only have standardized on a single public cloud
37%
use multiple private clouds
15%
of respondents don't use public cloud at all

86%
want to use containers for more applications,

APP
but only 15% are currently using their application delivery
controller to control access to containerized applications

Top Business Priorities
69% Faster troubleshooting and root cause analysis
53% Automation to optimize IT staff and resources
52% Analytics and application nsights
48% Agility 47% Operational efficiency

As they rethink their application delivery controller investments, what matters most is the bottom line
46% ROI

22% Customer Support

-$

18% Reducing Infrastructure Costs

TOP ADC PURCHASE CONSIDERATIONS

Learn how a modern ADC can close the gap on cloud expectations
Learn more in the A10 Networks survey report, "Insights 2022: The State of Hybrid Cloud Application Delivery."
Download the Report

©2022 A10 Networks, Inc. All rights reserved.
A10 Networks, the A10 Networks logo, ACOS, Thunder, Lightning, Harmony and SSL Insight are trademarks or registered trademarks of A10 Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. A10 Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. A10 Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. For the full list of trademarks, visit: A10networks.com/a10 trademarks.
Part Number: A10-GR-70353-EN-01 Feb 2022

