The VirtuCrypt Enterprise service offers a complete, comprehensive platform for secure key management, data processing, storage, infrastructure backup and disaster recovery, and more. With white labeling services available, VirtuCrypt is your single source cloud provider for your entire core cryptographic infrastructure.

NEW HEIGHTS IN ENTERPRISE CRYPTOGRAPHY
Imagine a hardened cloud service that combines scalable, fully redundant data processing capabilities along with the convenience of remote access and the robust physical and logical security of FIPS 140-2 Level 3-validated hardware security modules, key and certificate management servers, and more. That concept is now a reality, with organizations of all sizes able to benefit from the VirtuCrypt cloud service based on Futurex's globally trusted Hardened Enterprise Security Platform.

VirtuCrypt Elements provides specific functionality on a per-transaction basis, with virtually limitless scalability.
Complementing the Futurex solution suite, VirtuCrypt Plus services use the cloud to enhance visibility, ease compliance burdens, and increase redundancy.

SERVICES TO MEET YOUR NEEDS

VirtuCrypt's far-reaching functionality is separated into multiple levels of service, differing based on the environments into which it will be implemented. It provides organizations exactly the technology they need, in a format most conducive to the total system.

The wide range of applications for existing and new IT infrastructures include but are not limited to:

 HSM-based data processing
 Key and certificate management
 Registration authority
 Object signing
 P2PE and tokenization

 Secure key, certificate, and data storage
 Public key infrastructure generation and injection
 Cyber security
 DNSSEC
 SSL/TLS link encryption

// info@VirtuCrypt.com // T: +1 (830) 980-9782 // TF: (800) 980-9782

THE VIRTUCRYPT INTELLIGENCE PORTAL (VIP)
The VIP Dashboard provides an intuitive way to securely control and monitor your entire cryptographic environment from one location. Users can configure their VIP Dashboard to include only the information that is most useful to them and define custom alerts through VirtuCrypt's active environment monitoring utility.
Organizations also have the opportunity to rebrand the VirtuCrypt Dashboard so that it can be offered to customers with the cohesive look and feel they've worked hard to build. This includes adjusting color schemes, logos, and imagery to match the company's brand and create instant product recognition for customer base.

MULTIPLE, REDUNDANT DATA CENTERS
VIRTUCRYPT DATA CENTER SPECIFICATIONS
The multiple geographically separate data centers selected by VirtuCrypt showcase its high regard for uncompromising security. Not only are these data centers outfitted with state-of-the art technology, but they enforce physical and logical security measures, such as biometric access controls and dual authentication, that ensure the integrity of your most sensitive data.

