Aegis Padlock SSD
AES 256 Bit XTS Military Grade Hardware-Encrypted USB 3.2.
Our Smallest Portable, Reengineered to Double its Read and Write Speeds of the Original 2010 Version.

Here's to the next ten.
When first introduced in 2010, the Padlock SSD was designed to be a workhorse, delivering reliable SSD data security in an enclosure that could stand up to extreme weather conditions, hard knocks and drops. Now with our new super fast chipset, a more robust keypad, and greater storage capacities, the Padlock SSD reasserts itself as the clear choice for compact, durable data protection exactly where you
need it.

Double down on speed.
The Aegis Padlock SSD portable secure devices now features our next generation chipset, generating speed increases of roughly twice that of its predecessor. Coupled with the USB 3.2 gen 1 interface, the Padlock SSD can deliver data transfer rates of up to 350MB/s, depending on file types, and its host computer's internal drive type.

Small Footprint; Big Data Security.
Padlock SSD's encryption module meets NIST's requirements for FIPS 140-2 Level 2 while delivering a new level of advanced read / write speeds, all within a rugged aluminum exterior in a compact size.

Works well with others.
Like all Aegis secure drives, the Padlock SSD is software-free and completely hardware-encrypted, making it completely cross-compatible and OS agnostic. Since 100% of its authentication and encryption processes take place on the fly within the device itself, none of the CSPs are ever shared with its host computer. The Padlock SSD even works with systems that don't have a keyboard.

Pocket full of data.
With more than 5 storage capacity options, you can fit as much as 4TB in a device that is smaller and thinner than a deck of playing cards. Its pocket-sized, tamper-resistant enclosure is crafted from extruded, powder coated aluminum with a medical grade membrane style keypad, resistant to wear and abrasion.

©2021 Apricorn. 12191 Kirkham Rd., Poway, CA. 92064 | 800.458.5448 | apricorn.com

Aegis Padlock SSD
AES 256-Bit XTS Hardware-Encrypted USB 3.2 Gen-1 with Hardwired Type A Connector Extruded Powder-Coated Aluminum with Breakaway Connectors and Epoxy Threadlock Wear-Resistant Membrane Style Keypad / 10k Press Tested Software-Free / Locked-Down FIrmware to Prevent Introduction of Malware Such as BadUSB

Our patented firmware delivering the industry's most advanced feature set­ the heart and soul of every Apricorn device.

Separate Admin and User Modes / PINs Admin (Device Configuration) Mode and User Access Mode. The Admin mode controls the universal programmable settings of the device and can only be accessed with the Admin PIN. The User mode is for general external drive usage like read /write, unlock / lock, and certain other functions. The User mode is accessible via a User PIN or the Admin PIN.
Admin Forced Enrollment Eliminates factory default PIN vulnerability by forcing the enrollment of an Admin PIN prior to use. As with all Apricorn Aegis secure devices, there are no default passwords, and no backdoors. In order to use any Apricorn secure drive, the Admin must first establish a complex PIN.
User Forced Enrollment Beyond the admin PIN, one additional PIN can be generated to access the device's data. This User PIN can be set up by the admin at initial setup, or the device can be deployed in a state of User Forced Enrollment, allowing the user to establish his or her own PIN prior to use.
Data Recovery PINs Programmed by the admin at time of setup to permit regaining access to the drive by creating a state of User Forced Enrollment in which a new User PIN can be created without affecting the drive's existing data or the Admin PIN.

Two Read-Only Modes Universal Read Only: set by the admin from within the admin mode and can't be modified or disabled by anyone but the admin. The second (User) mode can be set and disabled by a user but can also be enabled or disabled by the admin.
Programmable PIN Length Admin Designates Minimum and Maximum PIN Lengths (between 7 and 16 Characters). The longer the PIN, the more secure the data on the device becomes. For example, the odds of brute force success go from 1/10,000,000 with a 7-digit PIN to 1/100,000,000 with an 8 digit PIN. In cases where the User sets up his or her own PIN from User Forced Enrollment, the Admin can still affect User password length requirements
Unattended Auto Lock Programmable Length of Time of Inactivity Permitted Before Drive Locks Itself. All Aegis Secure Drives will automatically lock once disconnected from a computer's USB port or the power to that USB port is interrupted, or after a pre-programmed period of inactivity.
Lock Override Allows Drive to Remain Unlocked During USB Port Re Enumeration (Virtual Machine, Remote Boot). Designated for specific cases in which the drive needs to remain unlocked through USB port re-enumeration such as during reboot, or passing through a virtual machine.

Self-Destruct PIN When Programmed and Activated, Performs a Crypto-Erase and Becomes New Access PIN. The last line of defense for data security when the device's physical security is at risk. The Self-Destruct PIN defends against these physically compromising situations by erasing the drive's contents, leaving it in normal working order appearing yet to be deployed
Brute Force Defense Programmable Number of Consecutive Invalid PIN Attempts Permitted (4-20) Before Crypto-Erase. If the device comes under a physical brute force attack, once the programmed number (between 4 and 20) of consecutive incorrect password entries has been attempted, the device will delete its own encryption key and destroy the ability to decrypt its stored data.
Provision Lock Patented setting where the admin can designate whether the device will permit itself to be reset by a User or after a brute force attempt. If Provision Lock is enabled, any attempt at complete reset will "brick" the device for good.
Aegis ConfiguratorTM Compatible Windows-Based App that Quickly Sets Up Multiple Devices Simultaneously. Create custom profiles and mass configure multiple devices in a matter of seconds using the Aegis Configurator. To configure an expanded number of devices, use the Powered Aegis Configurator Hub bundle.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
CAPACITIES SSD: 240GB, 480GB, 1TB, 2TB, 4TB
INTERFACE USB 3.2 GEN. 1; TYPE A Connector backward compatible with USB 1 and 2
DIMENSIONS and WEIGHT 64.5mm x 83.5mm x 14mm | 102 g (2.5" x 3.3" x 0.55" | 3.6oz
POWER SUPPLY 100% bus powered

TRANSFER RATE SSD: up to 350MB/s*
SYSTEM COMPATIBILITY WINDOWS, MAC OS, LINUX, ANDROID, CITRIX any that supports a USB mass storage device
STANDARDS / CERTIFICATIONS FIPS 140-2 LEVEL 3; CERT #3944 TAA COMPLIANT, NATO OTAN RESTRICTED (PENDING)

PACKAGE CONTENTS Aegis Padlock SSD, (1) 18" Type-A Y-connector extender cable,
(1) Travel Pouch, Multi-Language Quick-Start Guide

OPERATING TEMPERATURE RANGES -40° to 158°F (-40°C to 70°C)
OPERATING HUMIDITY RANGES 95% @ temps under 131°F (55°C)
SHOCK SSD NON-OPERATING: 1500G .5ms OPERATING: 1500G .5ms
CRUSH RESISTANT UP TO 6500 LBS
ECCN / HTS / CAGE CODE 5A992.c / 8523.51.0000 / 3VYK8
WARRANTY 3-Year Limited
SKU NUMBERS SSD: ASSD-3PL256-240F, ASSD-3PL256-480F, ASSD-3PL256-1TBF, ASSD-3PL256-2TBF, ASSD-3PL256-4TBF

* To achieve these speeds, your computer's internal harddrive must also be an SSD; all transfer rates will be limited by computer's internal HDD One gigabyte (GB) = one billion bytes; accessible capacity will be less and actual capacity depends on the operating environment and formatting.
©2021 Apricorn. 12191 Kirkham Rd., Poway, CA. 92064 | 800.458.5448 | apricorn.com | Patents: apricorn.com/patents

