OEM/ODM Solutions and Market-Ready Security Appliances
For over 40 year, AMAX has been the behind-the-scenes computing solution builder for the world's leading Fortune 1000 corporations, government, ISVs and OEMs. We blend our extensive knowledge in hardware, software, and manufacturing expertise to transform our clients' concepts into turnkey deployable appliances. From new product introduction to full-scale production, supply chain management and post-sales services, our mirrored capabilities across North America, Europe, and Asia enable innovators to go-to-market with product personalization and at the edge of business consumption.

TECHNOLOGY & PRODUCT SOLUTIONS
Our comprehensive menu of manufacturing and professional services ensure that our customers have a reliable full-service provider that supports them through the entire product life cycle.With global manufacturing sites, expert engineers, 24/7 customer service and direct access to technology innovation, AMAX is more than just a provider. From design through deployment, AMAX is with you every step of the way.

» BTO » Solution Design & Validation » OEM Server Manufacturing

» CTO » Global Manufacturing & Logistics » Global Supply Chain Manufacturing

GLOBAL REACH
With strategic sites in Ireland, US and China, AMAX deploys solutions to anywhere in the world. All AMAX sites are capable of serving as a manufacturing location or a logistics hub.

PRODUCT HIGHLIGHT
New technological advancements in edge computing have helped pave the way for Intel's latest Xeon D processor. This new system-on-chip features a one-package design with built-in AI, security, advanced I/O and Ethernet, plus dense compute to deliver high data through key edge requirements for any business demands. Bringing applications and diverse workloads together, the Xeon D processor provides up to a 7.4x improvement in AI inferencing for IoT applications vs. the previous generation.
TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS

FREMONT, USA

SHANNON, IRELAND

QUALITY ASSURANCE
ISO 9001/TL9000 Quality ISO 26000 Social Responsibility ISO 27001 Information Security

SUZHOU, CHINA

AMAX | 1565 Reliance Way, Fremont, CA 94539 | 1 (800) 800-6328 | www.amax.com | info@amax.com
© Copyright 2022 AMAX. Intel logo is a trademark or registered trademark of Intel Corporation. Foxconn is a trademark or registered trademark of Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. Ingrasys is a trademark or registered trademark of Ingrasys Technology Inc. All trademarks are the properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved. v05182022

