Privacy by Default with Anjuna and the NIST Framework

White Paper

The Importance of Cybersecurity


The world of technology is challenged to follow a new game plan for cybersecurity. We live in a world of internal and external vulnerabilities, where threat actors can obtain sensitive personal information, including Social Security, healthcare, and credit card data. The risk demands we handle customer intelligence with the most scrupulous means and mindfulness. 
 Unfortunately, the simple reality is that hackers only need access
Headline
 to a single aspect of the network, and your whole organization can be compromised via a lateral attack. One slip-up can harm your customers and your organization within minutes, as happened in the breach of Capital One.


Due to the pervasive nature of these threats, organizations must be more proactive and less reactive. Rather than merely waiting for hackers to gain access to your business and customer information, your teams must actively evaluate your cybersecurity strategy and resources and be ready to preemptively execute a powerful defense.  
 One of the most effective ways to reduce your attack surface is to adopt the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework. NIST is a unit of the U.S Commerce Department that promotes measurement standards. Ultimately, the NIST Framework can keep you and your company on the same page as you work to minimize security risks.

The NIST Framework: 
 Basic Understanding


The NIST Framework was established in 2013 in response to former President Obama's executive order 13636 (titled Critical Infrastructure CyberSecurity). It ordered NIST to work with stakeholders in developing a voluntary framework to minimize cybersecurity risk to critical infrastructure. The NIST model serves as a valuable tool to standardize security in company frameworks. 
 The Framework's three components consist of Core, Implementation Tiers, and Profiles.


core

profiles

Tiers

Figure 1: The circular and on-going relationship between the three components of the NIST Framework.
1

White Paper

Core


Let's begin with the Core, which focuses on cybersecurity activities and outcomes that your organization can easily implement. It is designed to simplify the deployment of a  multi-disciplinary team to communicate about cybersecurity technology initiatives in an easily comprehensible way. 


The Core's functions include categories and subcategories covering the vast surface space of cybersecurity. For example, the five high levels of operations are Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover, with a "rinse-and-repeat" cycle.

Identify
 01

Protect
 02

Detect
 03

Respond
 04

Recover
 05

Asset Management 
 Business Environment 
 Governance
 Risk Assesment
 Strategy
 Supply Chain Risks

Learn and Repeat

Identify Management and Access
 Awareness Training
 Data Security 
 Information Protection 
 Process & Procedures 
 Maintenance
 Protective Technology

Anomalies and Events
 Security Continuous
 Monitoring
 Detection Process

Response Planning 
 Communications
 Analysis
 Migration
 Improvement

Figure 2: The five stages of the Core function in the Framework.

Response Planning 
 Communications
 Analysis
 Migration
 Improvement
2

White Paper

Anjuna Privacy Platform Tiers 

There are four NIST Framework tiers on the Anjuna Privacy Platform: Partial, Risk-Informed, Repeatable, and Adaptive.

These tools determine whether your risk management policies map to the NIST Framework. Using the Anjuna Privacy platform we can help your company improve your posture in the many core frameworks of NIST implementation.

To the right is the expanded definition and explanation of how Anjuna can help your security posture. With our privacy platform you can take back control.

Úç PartialÝ
1 Û Tier covers businesses with no security processes in place. B 1 usinesses in Tier are classified as not having much cyber C maturity at all. ompanies on this tier tend to fail at z prioriti ing cybersecurity settings appropriately. At this level,
they should make efforts to understand and properly
1 address cybersecurity risks. Tier is a great starting point if B you want to have a process in protecting PII, for example. y
leveraging Anjuna Security technology, you can take a basic step in reducing your attack surface by hiding your application process in a secure enclaves.

2. Risk-InformeÔ
Ã 2 Tier is for businesses that may understand risks and are q ; currently addressing some compliance re uirements 2 however, they may not be addressing all the security
concerns or policies across the entire business. In Tier , you are taking your security more seriously. With our Anjuna
K M policy manager you can now build attestation into your
process and protecting your critical ey anagement systems and your front end applications.


01
 Partial

02
 Risk
 Informed

03
 Repeatable

04
 Adaptive

Risk Management Process

Integrated Management Program External Participation

Anjuna Privacy Platform

Figure 3: Each tier in the Framework designates the level of mitigation of cybersecurity risks.

X 3. Repeatabl Ã 3 Tier is for businesses that have executive-approved risk B management and cybersecurity best practices in place. usinesses
in this category are generally more prepared for cybersecurity
B 3 C /CD threats, risks, and addressing vulnerabilities in their environment. usinesses in Tier can now move into more advanced I deployment of their applications with secure enclaves and drive change in a more real-time, proactive manner, rather than always taking a reactive approach.


4 X . Adaptiv Ã B 4 z usinesses in Tier will utili e advanced adaptive cybersecurity

z practices. Adaptive security is an approach to cybersecurity that
analy es behaviors or events to help protect from or adapt to

threats before they happen. The adaptive tier allows businesses to

continuously assess risk and automatically provide proportional

enforcement that can be dialed up or down based on past

3 + 4 experiences and current industry best practices. When customers

reach the Adaptive stage, they can employ Tiers

to build a

z security policy that reduces the complexity of their cybersecurity
programs. This approach minimi es their attack surface and the

risk from internal and external actors.


3

White Paper

 
 Cybersecurity Profiles


The NIST Framework contains profiles that help an organization identify opportunities for improving its current cybersecurity posture. These profiles are a snapshot of the organization's requirements and objects, risk profile, and available resources. By comparing them against a "target" profile, organizations can better understand which improvements are needed to eliminate cybersecurity risks.

CI/CD Pipeline 
 and Attestation Requirements 

and Controls

PII and Privacy 
 Secure Enclaves by Default Powered by Anjuna

Business
 Objectives

Threat
 Environment

Figure 4: Opporutunities for organizational improvements to cybersecurity can be quickly identified and mapped with the use of the NIST Framework.

Deploying privacy in a CI/CD platform minimizes your attack surface when you're building a new cloud or on-premises environment. Security by default is the ideal state. A DevSecOps approach enables building an environment compliant with NIST controls. The following section addresses the importance of the NIST Framework.
Key Manager

Source

Compile

Measure

Distribute

Create Enclave

Deploy

Attest

Figure 5: DevSecOps allows for an NIST-compliant environment while minimizing the overall attack surface.

Run
4

White Paper

Importance of the NIST Framework

The NIST Framework provides a uniform set of guidelines and principles that all companies can use to improve their cybersecurity posture. The Framework makes it easier for you to design a customized, comprehensive cybersecurity strategy, rather than piecing together a patchwork of solutions.

A stringent Framework helps your organization manage a significant number of cybersecurity risks efficiently and flexibly.  



The NIST Framework can solve a variety of cybersecurity issues within your organization. It can help convince leadership to implement specific management procedures that minimize cybersecurity risk. 


Beyond this, the NIST Framework helps all key stakeholders get on the same page. It can even convince C-suite executives to allocate additional funds in this year's budget to patch up cybersecurity risks tactically. 



The NIST Framework can help properly align information security programs; for example, the Maritime Bulk Liquids Transfer Program used the NIST Framework to:¥
y Identify business priorities and compliance requirement y Conduct risk assessment y Determine gaps between the Current State and Target State
Profile y Create a road map to reduce many cybersecurity risks 



The Framework is a well-designed structural skeleton that you can mold and shape to promote objective progress toward your cybersecurity goals. NIST can hold your team accountable and help ensure that your infrastructure can withstand hackers and other cybercriminals.

Getting Started with the Anjuna Security Platform



How does Anjuna Security help you embark on implementing

It is vital that you agree on the means of measuring the effectiveness

the NIST Framework?  



of NIST implementation. Overall effectiveness depends on your

organization's goals and approach to its use. 



The NIST Framework's flexibility helps your organization employ

the best technologies to meet its cybersecurity needs. Anjuna

Although you will want to develop quantitative metrics to accurately

Security has enabled privacy by default--whether in a cloud, on-

measure effectiveness, NIST itself does not provide specific

premises, or hybrid environment. Anjuna enables Confidential

recommendations. By using Anjuna Security, however, you can build

Computing by unleashing the power of secure enclaves to

measures into your development process to ensure you are secure

deliver the building blocks needed to implement a secure

from the first time you deploy.


framework that follows NIST recommendations. The Framework

helps reduce your surface attacks and maximizes the use of

Finally, stay committed. It can be easy to consider moving on from the

available technologies using a single runtime binary. Anjuna

NIST Framework if you aren't quickly seeing the expected results. We

Security is an essential prerequisite to maximizing your

encourage you to stick with it--even if you face resistance from key

organization's success. 



stakeholders. By continuing to measure your progress, you will

inevitably see positive results.
5

LFeraamrneinwgormk

ore about the NIST

The NIST Framework and Anjuna Security can be the ideal

solution that enables your organization to minimize its

cFyrabmereswecourrki,tyvirsiistki.tsTowleebasrnitemboyreclaicbkoinugt hhoewre.tUhesinNgIStThis quick

guide and resources on the your environment and gain

NIST website you peace of mind by

cqaunictkalkyeseccounrtirnogl of

your organization.

Current and 
 Future Risks

Risk Management
Focus: Organizational Risk
 Action: Write Down Mission Priorities
and Execute implementation tier selection and direct risk decisions

Company Mission
 Priorities, Risk, and
Budget

Implementation Process Changes in Assets, Vulnerability,
and Threats

Business/Process Level
Focus: Infrastructure Risk Management

Action: Implementation of Risk Management and Develop budgets
and profiles
Implementation Levels
Focus: Organizational Risk
 Action: Write Down Mission Priorities
and Execute implementation tier selection and direct risk decisions

Framework Profiles

Anjuna Security Privacy Platform
Implementation

Figure 6: The NIST Framework seeks to ensure agility and security throught all levels of the organization.

White Paper
AREvenesjuroynudaracSyeesPcfeuoorriptyle


At Anjuna Security we focus on
educating you about the importance of building security
bwabyroidtuteetfnaSuealctcu.oOrmeuEpr nlfiomculaenvndetesar.r 
syheaBvoeok
Find out how you can design a path to a secure cloud migration and eliminate the
ryioskuroefnavnirionnsimdeernbt.
reach within CEnliccklahveesrefotroDreuamd mSeiecsu.
 re
About Anjuna
Anjuna Security makes the public cloud secure for business. Software from Anjuna Security effortlessly enables enterprises to safely run even their most sensitive workloads in the public cloud. 
 Unlike complex perimeter security solutions easily breached by insiders and malicious code, Anjuna leverages the strongest hardware-based secure computing technologies available to
make the public cloud the safest computing resource available
anywhere. 
 anjuna.io | info@anjuna.io | 650-501-0240
6

