SOLUTION BRIEF

ARMIS ASSET MANAGEMENT
SEE AND SECURE EVERY THINGTM

Can you accurately say how many assets you have? And are they secure?
Today's organizations still struggle to see all their assets--from managed to unmanaged to IoT devices, from virtual machines to clouds, and more. For devices in your environment, can you accurately identify all you have? Most companies can't, and this leaves them exposed to compliance, vulnerability, and security issues.
Armis® Asset Management provides a flexible, seamless, and comprehensive asset inventory solution. We provide two to five times the visibility into all assets by combining data from other systems with Armis to create one source of truth for all your assets (hardware, & software & services), and provide the risk posture of devices to keep your business and users secure.
"We chose Armis for our security and asset management needs at Docusign. Actionable visibility was critical as a part of our overall security strategy. Armis has a game changing approach that lets us see more assets and devices than we ever thought we had, and more than any other solution we looked at--by far the best in the industry. I've used them before for anything from IT hygiene, policy validation and compliance, and device security, and Armis is the best tool in the market."
Emily Heath, SVP, Chief Trust & Security Officer at DocuSign

SIMPLE AND COMPREHENSIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT
Discover all your assets
Identify gaps, vulnerabilities & risks
Automate & enforce security policies

© 2021 ARMIS, INC. | 1.888.452.4011 | armis.com

Discover every asset--Every thing
Armis Asset Management provides a unified and comprehensive view of all the devices in your environment, including remote or off-prem devices. We can identify:

· Device type · Version · Reputation · Software

· Known vulnerabilities · Users · Patches · Risks

Moreover, Armis can identify where assets are, when they connect, whether they are missing critical security agents or updates, which applications they are using and if they are vulnerable, and can identify remote workers and offprem devices.

Identify risks--secure devices
Beyond discovering all assets, Armis can identify risks and vulnerabilities for devices in the office, at remote locations, as well as those interacting with your cloud environments. Armis understands what a device is and how it is being used and correlates that information against our platform's inherent understanding of device characteristics and behaviors. Armis then compares a device's individual risk profile with your organization's risk posture to provide automated security and policy enforcement.

Eliminate fragmentation and complexity
Armis has hundreds of available adapters to seamlessly integrate with existing IT and security solutions to aggregate asset information eliminating the "fragmentation effect" that results from using too many individual solutions. Working in combination with our one-of-a-kind Device Knowledgbase which tracks 500 million assets daily, we bring together all asset information to provide context about each one in a real time and continuous manner.
Automate and enforce security policies
By connecting to your existing IT and security solutions, Armis delivers a trusted, comprehensive, and unified asset inventory of the devices.
If Armis identifies a vulnerability, risk, or security gap, it can automate security and policy enforcement. We can orchestrate the necessary actions in conjunction with your IT or security management solutions, or at the network level. This includes actions like blocking or quarantining a device, triggering a vulnerability scan, if appropriate, kicking off a process to install software, or feeding device risk data to your SIEM or CMDB.

JUST A FEW OF THE PREBUILT ADAPTERS FROM ARMIS

© 2021 ARMIS, INC. | 1.888.452.4011 | armis.com

Fast and simple to deploy
The Armis Asset Management platform is fast and easy to deploy across your environment because it doesn't require any agents and it integrates directly with your existing IT and security management tools. The platform can be up and running in minutes, and starts providing asset inventory information and insights right away.
Find vulnerable applications
Beyond identifying the assets, Armis Asset Management can identify vulnerable apps running on devices. Our integrations with your IT and security management solutions, along with our deep device identification and classification, allow you to see the applications running on devices, and if there are vulnerabilities, such as:
· Is the device missing an agent? · Is the device running an unpatched version of Chrome or Zoom? · Is the device running an exploitable version of VxWorks or other RTOS?
Just ASQ for important insights
Armis provides the Armis Standard Query (ASQ), letting you identify specific devices, their state, and any security gaps or exposures you may have. It's an easy "If this, then that" visual query builder that lets you create reports and get insights quickly. For example, you can create a query to identify which devices are running a version of an application or operating system that contains known vulnerabilities. Armis lets you track:
· Managed devices · Unmanaged and IoT devices · Mobile devices · Virtual Machines · Cloud Instances · Specialized devices (medical, healthcare, manufacturing, OT, etc.) · Users
Armis Device Knowledgebase
Core to the Armis platform is our Device Knowledgebase. It is a giant, crowdsourced, cloud-based device behavior knowledgebase--the largest in the world, tracking 500 million devices--and growing.
Each profile includes unique asset information - asset type, OS version, user, MAC address, IP, and applications including name, version, date/time seen, and more. We track this information over time. These asset insights enable Armis to classify devices and detect threats with a higher degree of accuracy. Armis compares real-time device state and behavior to "knowngood" baselines for similar devices we have seen in other environments. When a device operates outside of its baseline, Armis can work with your existing IT and security management solution to automate enforcement of policies.

5X THE VISIBILITY
Based on experience across multiple deployments, Armis sees the blind spot and "fragmentation effect" that results from legacy approaches. On average, Armis sees almost 5x more assets over existing solutions such as Vulnerability Management, EDR, and CMDB solutions. The Armis approach combines comprehensive discovery of all assets and identification of gaps in your asset security to give you complete confidence that you are safe and secure.

Solution
Vulnerability Management Solutions
EDR Solutions
CMDB Solutions

Armis Sees
3x
4x 8x

ABOUT ARMIS
Armis is the leading agentless, enterprise-class device security platform, designed to protect organizations from cyberthreats created by the onslaught of unmanaged and IoT devices. Fortune 1000 companies trust our real-time and continuous protection to see and control all managed, unmanaged, un-agentable and IoT devices--from traditional devices like laptops and smartphones to new smart devices like smart TVs, webcams, printers, HVAC systems, industrial control systems and PLCs, medical devices and more. Armis provides passive and unparalleled asset inventory, risk management, and detection & response. Armis has the world's largest Device Knowledgebase, tracking over 500M devices, tracking device behavior, connections, and history.

© 2021 ARMIS, INC. | 1.888.452.4011 | armis.com

20210111-1

