DATASHEET

Email Security For  Your Cloud Office

The Human Layer Challenge
We are entering an age of hybrid work where people can accomplish great things from anywhere and are embedded in scores of digital workflows. Most of those workflows involve email and are being hijacked by cybercriminals to target the human layer of enterprises. Here's how email security has changed over the years:
Email attacks have changed

Phishing attacks have evolved to get past traditional security layers via email, SMS, voice, and so on. The FBI received 110% more phishing-related complaints in 2020 compared to 2019.

Payloadless attacks like Business Email Compromise (BEC) and Email Account Compromise (EAC) use language and context as weapons to cause untold losses. The FBI reported $1.86 billion in BEC and EAC losses in 2020.

Email delivery has changed

With 71% of organizations using cloud or hybrid cloud email, businesses are moving away from legacy Secure Email Gateways (SEGs) and instead seeking API-based email security controls that are easier to deploy and don't require MX record changes.
Native email security has changed


Microsoft and Google now provide good spam and malware protection out-of-the-box with their cloud email suites. This enables organizations to seek out augments to native email security that protect against advanced email attacks without duplicating what they have already paid for.
Armorblox Overview
Armorblox helps organizations communicate more securely over email with the power of Natural Language Understanding (NLU).

The Armorblox platform connects to email providers over APIs to understand the context of communications and protect people and data from compromise. Tens of thousands of organizations use Armorblox to stop BEC and targeted phishing attacks, protect sensitive PII and PCI and reduce triage and response times for user-reported email threats.


Copyright © 2022 Armorblox Inc. All rights reserved.

www.armorblox.com

SUMMARY
Stop phishing, BEC, and other targeted, socially engineered attacks
 Protect PII and PCI from falling into the wrong hands
 Automated triage and remediation of user-reported email threats


EMAIL INTEGRATIONS
Microsoft 365
 Google Workspace
 Exchange
Use CASES
Advanced Threat Prevention
 Spear Phishing
 Zero-Day Credential Phishing
 Payroll / Payment / Invoice Fraud
 Executive / Employee Impersonation 
 Account Compromise Detection 
 Ransomware
 URL Protection
 Malware Detection


Advanced Data Loss Prevention
 PII / PCI Protection
 Password Protection
 Custom Policies and Regexes

Security Operations
 Vendor Insights
 Abuse Mailbox Remediation
 EAC Timeline View
 Warning Banners
  

1


Product Capabilities
Advanced Threat Prevention
Stop a wide range of targeted email attacks - whether they have malicious links, 0-day links, or no links at all.
Stop targeted attacks such as BEC, spear phishing, impersonation, extortion, payroll fraud, vendor fraud and other advanced attacks.

Use detailed threat intelligence and IOCs that draw from 1000s of signals across identity, behavior and language.

Simplify email security operations with out-of-the-box detection policies and automated threat remediation actions that delete, quarantine or label malicious emails.

Uncover communication-focused insights to drive targeted security interventions: e.g. most impersonated VIPs, most attacked
employees, most attacked departments.
 Detect and block emails that try to phish for account credentials: e.g. emails linking to fake login portals. 

Identify anomalous email behavioral patterns and remotely lock suspicious user accounts.

Prevent data exfiltration by detecting anomalous mail forwarding rules, suspicious email forwards.

Advanced URL Protection

Block attacks that target your workforce to steal credentials with real-time protection against fraudulent sites and malicious URLs.
Enforce safe redirects by selectively rewriting bad URLs and preventing end users from navigating to fraudulent sites.
 Block advanced threats that use evasive techniques with Machine Learning-driven analysis: e.g. embedded URLs.
 Increase end-user awareness through pre-click and on-click contextual warning banners.
 Real-time inspection and detection of malicious URLs in emails to stop targeted attacks: e.g. zero day threats.


Advanced Malware detection

Enhance your email security posture with multi-layered malware protection without interrupting business email workflows.
Protect your organization against previously unseen, targeted malware and advanced persistent threats using Machine Learning models, static and dynamic analysis to capture both malware attributes and techniques.

Stop attacks propagated through email attachments with secure environments to test, replay, characterize and document advanced malicious activity.

Proactively warn end users of threats through contextual banners as files are analyzed without introducing delays in email delivery.

Advanced Data Loss Prevention
Reduce false positives and prevent exposure of sensitive data with natural language understanding and artificial intelligence.
Reduce false positive rates with language-based models that identify sensitive PII/PCI data within email context: e.g. differentiating between SSNs and Zoom meeting IDs.

Increase accuracy of data loss detection with custom policies and regexes: e.g. Medical Record Numbers, Vendor or Customer Identification Numbers.

Configure data loss prevention in compliance mode (monitor and detect occurrences) or block mode (delete and block emails).

Uncover data exposure insights to drive targeted compliance interventions (most noncompliant individuals, data leakage incidents per department, most common compliance policy violations).

Securit y Operations


Reassign your security team's time and expertise by automating triage and remediation of user-reported email threats.
Connect Armorblox to your organization's phishing/abuse mailbox to automatically monitor and analyze user-reported email threats.


Auto-remediate safe emails and known threats to focus on reported emails that need human review.


Faster threat investigation for account compromises with a timeline view that consolidates all events associated with potential takeover.


Remove identical and similarly suspicious emails across user mailboxes with one click.


Apply forward-looking remediation actions that automatically protect against similar attacks in the future.


Quickly search emails by sender, recipient or subject to apply custom remediation actions across user mailboxes.


Schedule automated reports that share key insights into your organization's threats on the cadence of your choice via email.


Identify and monitor vendor profiles conducting business with you, create supplier risk assessments to stop vendor fraud attempts: e.g. invoice fraud, look alike domains, hijacking invoice payment conversation threads.


How It Works:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Connects over APIs in 

Builds communication

Automatically flags targeted

Automated and configurable

5-minutes to MSFT365, Google, baselines for your organization

email attacks - no custom

remediation actions across

and Exchange environments



and users


policy creation needed


affected mailboxes


2

Copyright © 2022 Armorblox Inc. All rights reserved.

www.armorblox.com

