DATASHEET
OneTrust GRC Audit Management
Streamline internal audit efforts and evaluate performance based on your compliance and risk management initiatives
The sprawl of data, documents, and spreadsheets across systems and disciplines creates tedious and timeconsuming work when performing compliance audits. OneTrust GRC Audit Management helps you centrally manage and streamline the execution of your risk or compliance audits with an extensive library of pre-mapped controls, visibility into control testing and status, and supported workflow and documentation to facilitate collaborative interaction with the 1st and 2nd line.

Identify Risks and Scope Controls
Initiate and prioritize auditing efforts.

Streamline Evidence Collection
Schedule requests, notify owners, use intelligent triggers.

Document Control Testing
Centralize workpapers and report on status.

Visualize & Report
Automate operational and executive reporting and visualize trends.

IDENTIFY RISKS AND SCOPE CONTROLS
 Generate regular internal audits to measure risk exposure and stay ahead of regulatory demands.  Leverage our control library, pre-mapped to leading industry frameworks and standards.  Create many-to-many relationships between standards, entities, policies, processes, risks, controls, assets, etc...
STREAMLINE EVIDENCE COLLECTION
 Schedule recurring evidence requests and automatically notify respective owners.  Automatically attach evidence provided by owners to respective controls.  Avoid unnecessary hunting for evidence across systems, departments, and individuals.
DOCUMENT CONTROL DESIGN AND OPERATING EFFECTIVENESS
 Kick start testing efforts with templatized workpapers to guide and standardize documentation.  Automatically update risk status and values based on control effectiveness.  Establish remediation and risk treatment plans, and track control gaps, issues, and recommendations in a
centralized log.
VISUALIZE AND REPORT ON RISKS AND CONTROLS
 Measure performance over time with centralized findings and historical benchmarking.  Provide end-to-end visibility from data collection to findings reports for leadership and regulatory authorities.  Track control status from planned, pending, and implemented, as well as status of control testing and effectiveness.
REQUEST A DEMO AT ONETRUSTGRC.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | MELBOURNE | DENVER | SEATTLE SAN FRANCISCO | NEW YORK | S홒 PAULO | MUNICH | PARIS | HONG KONG | BANGKOK OneTrust GRC enables risk, compliance and audit professionals to identify, measure, and remediate risk across their business to comply with internal rules and external regulations. With OneTrust GRC, companies can seamlessly integrate risk management into their day to day activities. OneTrust GRC is a part of OneTrust, the #1 most widely used privacy, security, and governance platform trusted by more than 9,000 customers
and powered by 150 awarded patents. To learn more, visit OneTrustGRC.com or connect on LinkedIn. Copyright  2021 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

