Secure the Modern Workplace.

Drive the change your business needs:
Secure work from anywhere
77% of companies will allow hybrid work. Enable employees to safely access resources from home, the road, or the office - from any device, over any network.
Secure third-party access
1/3 users are partners, suppliers, vendors or customers. Provide access to key resources without VPN or ever deploying a client on devices.
Modernize infrastructure
Connect users to apps via a cloud-delivered service, and reduce costs of appliances, and MPLS infrastructure used at branch and HQ locations.

To outpace competition every IT leader has been asked to invest in services designed to ensure the productivity of their workforce and its supply chain. This has created an opportunity for IT leaders to define the new technologies that will connect their users to key business resources like M365, Salesforce and SAP.
90% of IT leaders have plans to adopt SaaS and hybrid cloud services that extend connectivity out to their workforce. In this modern workplace every user, application, and their device are connected over the largest external channel in the world ­ the Internet.
But, unlike the traditional network, the Internet was not designed to be controlled by IT. Because of this, the network solutions that worked for the past 30 years are not only obsolete, but they place users on the network and expose infrastructure to the Internet. They've become the conduit for ransomware attacks that threaten the business' data and its reputation.

Axis aims to enable a world where the exchange of information is always fast, seamless and secure.
Through 350 global points of presence, Axis securely connects entities to any business resources based on identity, policy and adaptive context (device health, location, user life-cycle).
All initial connections are first terminated by Axis, and the entity is then immediately validated using APIs with IDP and endpoint services. Axis inspects the traffic, and then establishes a secure one-to-one encrypted connection to the specific resource based on the defined policy.
The key difference is that users are never placed on the network, apps are made invisible to unauthorized parties, and in many cases IT never even has to deploy a client on user devices.

Axis Innovations & Capabilities

Zero trust network access (ZTNA)
Axis offers the most advanced ZTNA service in the industry. Axis brokers secure connections to both private apps (even VOIP) and SaaS apps through granular per -application segments. The service removes the need for VPN, and network segmentation.
Additionally, apps are placed behind Axis and are unreachable to unauthorized users, while inline inspection of private apps and SaaS traffic protects business resources from cyberthreats.
Axis clientless access
Axis secures access to web-based resources - even browser-based RDP sessions - without the need for a client. No more spending months rolling out more clients to employee devices. Third-party users appreciate this too.
Location-based access
Use location as a key criterion for access to better comply with industry regulations and protect against anomalies. This can be set right from within the Axis UI - without the need for a third-party IDP.

Advanced visibility into user activity
Axis' inspection capability allows IT to view exactly what each employee or third-party user is accessing, down to each brush stroke and in real-time. IT can even record RDP sessions to make sure no malicious insider activity is taking place.
Axis Digital Experience Monitoring
Boosts user productivity with hop-by-hop metrics, monitor app, device and network performance and help pinpoint connectivity issues to reduce mean time to innocence.
100% Cloud-delivered
Over 2X more PoPs than some vendors, Axis boasts 350 PoPs running on the global backbone of the world's most trusted public cloud infrastructure.
For IT leaders concerned about cloud security, compliance or challenges in certain countries (China for example), Axis Private Edge serves as a local broker that deploys as software running on the customer's infrastructure, but is still managed by Axis.

Bi-directional support between clients and servers
Use Axis for client to server workflows like securing access to business resources, or to perform key server-initiated workflows like remote assistance and remotely deploying compliance solutions onto user endpoints.
API-integrated
Axis integrates with key technologies like Azure AD, Okta, CrowdStrike, Splunk and several others so IT can maximize return from these investments and focus on the key solutions that matter most. IT can say bye to managing fifty different network and security point products.
To learn more visit us at
www.axissecurity.com

