ZERO TRUST NETWORK ACCESS CASE STUDY

BANG ENERGY SECURES INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, SUPPLY CHAIN AND MANUFACTURING/PRODUCTION WITH ZERO TRUST Leading global sports nutrition and beverage brand makes Zero Trust a policy driver within its risk-based approach to cybersecurity

Background
Bang Energy, a DBA of Vital Pharmaceuticals, manufactures and supplies sports nutrition supplements and performance beverages--including three of the top 10 products and flavors in the energy drink market. Founded in 1993, the company has approximately 1,300 employees and is based in Weston, Fla.
Challenges and Requirements
Bang Energy produces its own products through a combination of business operations, manufacturing, logistics and supply chain management. They also have adopted Industry 4.0 best practices to accelerate growth and preserve sustainability.
As part of this vision, Patrick Doliny, Senior Vice President of Information Security, saw that Zero Trust had an important role to play in securing the company's intellectual property and production capability, especially as integrations with vendors, suppliers and service providers deepened.
In particular, Zero Trust as a paradigm could apply not only to the company's IT infrastructure but also to the operational technology (OT), Internet of Things (IoT) and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) that are present in a modern, interconnected manufacturing environment.
At the same time, Doliny understood that Zero Trust could address very specific use cases including unifying cloud and on-premises access, securing third-party access (e.g., when a support service provider needs to connect to a manufacturing component) and replacing the company's legacy VPN solution to better enable remote employees.
Solution
Bang Energy engaged with a leading analyst firm and performed an in-depth study of Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA) solutions. After considering the options, the team selected Appgate SDP, an industry-leading ZTNA solution.
Doliny specifically cited Appgate SDP's dynamic capabilities, assigned entitlements feature and applicability to hybrid environments and diverse device mixes as major factors in the decision.
Beyond added security benefits--including greater protection of the company's valuable intellectual property--Bang Energy also realized simpler governance and management including:
· Simpler management with a unified policy framework for on-premises and multi-cloud resources
· Easier and more secure onboarding and offboarding of employees and third parties
· Secure connectivity from any device to any other device, spanning the full range of workstations, mobile devices, IoT, IIoT and OT

INDUSTRY Food and beverage
USE CASES Unified cloud and on-premises access Cloud security Secure third-party access VPN replacement IoT
CHALLENGES Complex device mix (e.g., IT, OT, IoT, IIoT) Integrated suppliers, vendors and service providers Distributed employees Specialized access needs
BENEFITS Secure connectivity across distributed hybrid environments Easy to configure policies, conditions and entitlements for all users, devices and workloads Simplified onboarding and offboarding Precise, fine-grained access control Simpler governance
"What we've done is make Zero Trust a policy driver. We took a step back and asked, `where does our data reside?' in the context of manufacturing and supply chains. That risk-based approach allows us to be very intentional about ZT and our architecture. If you want a Zero Trust solution with absolute security in mind, choose Appgate."
Patrick Doliny, SVP of Information Technology & Cyber Security, Bang Energy
About Appgate
Appgate is the secure access company. We empower how people work and connect by providing solutions purpose-built on Zero Trust security principles. This people-defined security approach enables fast, simple and secure connections from any device and location to workloads across any IT infrastructure in cloud, on-premises and hybrid environments. Appgate helps organizations and government agencies worldwide start where they are, accelerate their Zero Trust journey and plan for their future. Learn more at appgate.com

©2022 Appgate. All Rights Reserved. The Appgate logo and certain product names are the property of Appgate. All other marks are the property of their respective owners.

SDP-0988

