Nuance Gatekeeper Authentication and Fraud Prevention Solutions

Biometric authentication and intelligent fraud prevention solutions for digital channels
Improve customer experiences and prevent more fraud

Digital customer interactions are up 29% year over year, 70% come from mobile devices, and 55% of consumers say that security is their top priority in online experiences. You need to both reduce friction for digital users and protect their accounts. But most authentication and fraud detection methods force you to choose between delivering better experiences or higher security.

With Nuance, there's no need to compromise. Nuance Gatekeeper layers AI-based voice, behavioral, and conversational biometrics with intelligent fraud detectors to seamlessly authenticate mobile, messaging, and web users while proactively detecting fraud. Within seconds, we verify the actual person behind the device, increasing security while improving their experience.

Traditional authentication in mobile, messaging, and web apps is frustrating and vulnerable to fraud

78%

of people reset a password every 90 days1

57
SECONDS

to access an account with a one-time passcode2

2FA

via passcode is easily bypassed or intercepted3

46%

increase in digital fraud attempts year over year4

Streamline and protect digital interactions with biometric authentication and intelligent fraud prevention through Nuance Gatekeeper

Voiceprint capture
Susan Coleman
Match

Account protection Replace one-time passcodes with voice authentication to reduce friction and increase security during onboarding,
password resets, and account recovery.

Strong, seamless 2FA Layer behavior and
environment monitoring with voice biometrics to automatically prompt fast, secure in-app 2-factor and step-up authentication.

Messaging security Analyze user behavior and language to detect social engineering of chat agents and prevent
account takeovers, application fraud, data
leakage, and more.

I didn't get the confirmation text, and I can't access the email I normally use...

Digital security Continuously monitor behavior and environment signals to proactively detect anomalies, session changes, bots, and other threats in mobile, messaging,
and web apps.

Suspected Fraudster!

Reduce friction, improve experiences, increase security, and prevent fraud in digital channels

99%

authentication success rate

1
SECOND

or less to authenticate

90% detection of fraud

Real-world outcomes

92%

reduction in fraud losses

"Now we can offer our customers the exceptional experience they deserve. Being able to use your voice to access your accounts is an easy and natural process."
-- José Ignacio Zorrilla, Executive Director of Innovation Santander Mexico

BETTER OUTCOMES THROUGH A UNIFIED SOLUTION
As a central source of authentication and fraud prevention in every channel, Nuance Gatekeeper delivers higher authentication success rates and increased fraud detection while simplifying vendor management and integration complexity.

WHY NUANCE?

500+
successful deployments

600M+
voiceprints created

8B+
transactions secured annually

$2B+
fraud losses prevented every year

Visit www.nuance.com/gatekeeper to learn more

1 h ttps://www.digitalinformationworld.com/2019/12/new-password-study-finds-78-of-people-had-to-reset-a-password-they-forgotin-past-90-days.html, accessed 06 July
2 https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/12/19/multi-factor-authentication-sucks, accessed 06 July 2021 3 https://www.zdnet.com/article/new-tool-automates-phishing-attacks-that-bypass-2fa/, accessed 06 July 2021 4 https://www.transunion.com/blog/global-fraud-trends-Q1-2021, accessed 06 July 2021

Copyright © 2021 Nuance Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.

ENT_4408_01_IF, Aug 4, 2021

