Datasheet
Managed Detection & Response (MDR)
Bitdefender MDR Helps Organizations Become Cyber Resilient
Cybersecurity has become a critical factor for business success. Attackers have grown more sophisticated and their techniques more resistant to traditional prevention methods. Today, it's more important than ever for organizations to ensure they have the expertise available to identify threats and respond rapidly to minimize the impact of attacks quickly and effectively.
Bitdefender MDR helps you become a more cyber resilient business with 24/7 security monitoring, advanced attack prevention, detection, and response from a team of experts you can hold accountable.
Not only do you benefit from the industry renowned endpoint technology, GravityZone® Business Security Enterprise, and its comprehensive feature set, but you get the dedicated support and managed onboarding, plus all of the security expertise in Bitdefender's Global Security Operations Center (SOC), to ensure you're up and running quickly.
With Bitdefender MDR, you also receive periodic threat hunting activities targeted at your business systems, as well as risk-based threat hunting triggered by expert analysis of the global threat landscape. From small businesses to enterprises, from financial services to e-commerce, Bitdefender MDR is built for resilience ­ we leave no place for attackers to hide.

At-a-Glance
Bitdefender MDR helps you with the security challenges of today ­ so they won't be challenges tomorrow. Be it alert fatigue, tool complexity, skills and resources constraints or compliance/ privacy concerns, Bitdefender MDR is built for resilience, defending your people, systems, and data 24x7.
You'll benefit from project management and included professional services to get you up and running and protected as quickly as possible, and your single point of contact for Bitdefender MDR, the Security Account Manager, ensures you get the most out of the service with a personalized approach.
For an overview of your MDR service, you can access the MDR Portal and see customized dashboards of your environments, onboarding documentation, and reports, and insight into any open investigations.
Bitdefender MDR Snapshot
· 85+ Elite security analysts, researchers and threat hunters ­ all working for you.
· It's 3AM, but yes - we're up around the clock. We operate 24x7 so you don't have to.
· 100% Bitdefender analysts have at least one third-party security certification.

"Bitdefender MDR assures me that someone is watching our entire network in real-time, including when my staff and I are not in the office. We're able to protect our information assets regardless of where employees are logging in from. MDR is an extension of my team to support the mission of the Archdiocese."
IT Director Archdiocese | Non-profit | USA

Datasheet

Become Cyber Resilient with Bitdefender MDR

Bitdefender MDR is available via two service tiers.
24/7 Security Operations Threat Management Tailored Response Playbooks Expert Recommendations Root Cause & Impact Analysis Monthly Service Reports Risk-based Threat Hunting Text & Email Notifications Dedicated Security Account Manager Targeted Threat Hunting Tailored Threat Modeling Priority Target Monitoring Brand & IP Protection

Premium           

Enterprise             

The Bitdefender MDR Portal provides an overview of your MDR service, access to customized dashboards of your environments, onboarding documentation, and reports, and insight into any open investigations.

3945 Freedom Circle Ste 500, Santa Clara California, 95054, USA

Bitdefender is a cybersecurity leader delivering best-in-class threat prevention, detection, and response solutions worldwide. Guardian over millions of consumer, business, and government environments, Bitdefender is one of the industry's most trusted experts for eliminating threats, protecting privacy and data, and enabling cyber resilience. With deep investments in research and development, Bitdefender Labs discovers over 400 new threats each minute and validates around 40 billion daily threat queries. The company has pioneered breakthrough innovations in antimalware, IoT security, behavioral analytics, and artificial intelligence, and its technology is licensed by more than 150 of the world's most recognized technology brands. Launched in 2001, Bitdefender has customers in 170+ countries with offices around the world. For more information, visit https://www.bitdefender.com.
All Rights Reserved. © 2022 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.

Bitdefender-BSG-GZ-MDR-Datasheet-DEX4805-en_EN CD-Feb/11/2022 · MD-Apr/05/2022

