Datasheet
Extended Detection & Response (XDR)
Intuitive, predictive, security simplified.
Organizations need to protect an ever-increasing attack surface with more devices, identities, and data across a growing and heterogeneous infrastructure as it is targeted by innovative attack techniques.
Many security solutions require multiple additional security technologies and integrations with third parties for threat prevention, detection and response.
Embedded into Bitdefender's industry-leading prevention and detection technologies, GravityZone XDR is designed to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of security teams, minimize attacker dwell time, and enable organizational cyber resilience.
The solution monitors a wide range of physical and virtual assets, connected devices, cloud platforms, and workloads. Users benefit from out-of-the-box analytics and advanced heuristics which correlates disparate alerts, enabling quick triage of incidents and rapid attack containment through automated and guided response.
The GravityZone XDR platform detects attacks faster and with more accuracy, exposing the full scope of the attack by connecting events and incidents over time and delivering deeper context and actionable guidance through the Incident Advisor.
 Consolidates observations and events across the business environment  Built-in machine learning algorithms for high confidence detections  Cross-source root cause analysis and context for rapid triage and action  Guided or automated threat response directly from the platform

At-a-Glance
Bitdefender GravityZone XDR is a cloud-delivered solution built to secure the entire business environment. The solution provides detection and response capabilities across an organization's users and systems, including endpoints, network, and cloud.
With an easy-to-use interface, GravityZone XDR is designed to intelligently analyze and automatically correlate and triage security events from across the organization, resulting in a key set of benefits to organizations looking to secure complex environments.
Key Benefits
 Comprehensive visibility with easy to deploy and manage sensors that collect data from across the organization
 Out-of-the-box automated detection and triage of alerts based on correlation and detection algorithms delivered both locally to the sensor and at the cloud platform level
 Easy investigation using the Incident Advisor, a single dashboard highlighting comprehensive analysis with recommended automated or guided response actions
 Rapid response for complete incident containment executed directly from within the XDR Platform

Datasheet
Detect, discover, hunt, and respond across your organization
GravityZone XDR is a cloud-delivered product for organizations that want to run the technology in-house. Bringing endpoint, cloud, identity, network and productivity application data to the GravityZone platform expands visibility far beyond just managed endpoints.

COLLECT Endpoints Servers & Containers Network Office 365 Azure Active Directory Active Directory
AWS Google Cloud
Azure

DETECT

CORRELATE

VISUALIZE

INVESTIGATE

GravityZone Cloud

RESPOND

Event Correlation Engine

Incident Advisor

Threat Hunting

Full Remote Shell

Behavioral

Embedded

Detections Threat Intelligence

MITRE TTPs

Organization-level attack

Forensics Collection

Endpoint Response

Identity Response

Security Analytics

Automated activity timeline

Email Response

Productivity Applications Sensors that collect and pre-process data about email traffic and content.

Cloud
Collects and processes information about configuration changes and user activity.

Identity The sensors collect and process user sign-in activity, configuration changes and other activity.

Network Collects and processes network traffic across the environment.

For organizations looking for a managed service, Bitdefender MDR, leveraging GravityZone XDR, keeps the organization safe with 24x7 security monitoring, advanced attack prevention, detection and remediation, and targeted and risk-based threat hunting by a certified team of security experts.

Bitdefender-BSG-GZ-XDR-Datasheet-NoLocalization-crea6093-en_EN CD-Apr/07/2022  MD-Apr/08/2022

3945 Freedom Circle Ste 500, Santa Clara California, 95054, USA

Bitdefender is a cybersecurity leader delivering best-in-class threat prevention, detection, and response solutions worldwide. Guardian over millions of consumer, business, and government environments, Bitdefender is one of the industry's most trusted experts for eliminating threats, protecting privacy and data, and enabling cyber resilience. With deep investments in research and development, Bitdefender Labs discovers over 400 new threats each minute and validates around 40 billion daily threat queries. The company has pioneered breakthrough innovations in antimalware, IoT security, behavioral analytics, and artificial intelligence, and its technology is licensed by more than 150 of the world's most recognized technology brands. Launched in 2001, Bitdefender has customers in 170+ countries with offices around the world. For more information, visit https://www.bitdefender.com.
All Rights Reserved.  2022 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.

