Case Study

Energizer drives peak cybersecurity performance with Bitdefender
Global brand manufacturer shields infrastructure from advanced threats, cuts time devoted to incident response by 50 percent, and streamlines patch compliance
THE CHALLENGE
When it comes to cybersecurity, lack of visibility is a major risk. With malware, ransomware, and advanced persistent threats and time devoted to incident response on the rise globally, Energizer's security team conducted an in-depth evaluation of security solutions from Bitdefender, Symantec, Carbon Black, Trend Micro, CrowdStrike, and Panda, among others. Craig Rodenberg, Information Security Architect, Energizer, explains, "Bitdefender was the only security vendor that blocked 100 percent of threats in our tests, including some we developed in our labs. We were impressed. Bitdefender also offered the fullest feature set that incorporated numerous antivirus and antimalware engines and techniques."
THE SOLUTION
Bitdefender GravityZone Business Security Enterprise provides Energizer with integrated endpoint protection, detection, response, and risk analytics across approximately 6,000 endpoints. Bitdefender also protects Energizer's Microsoft Azure cloud. Energizer's applications running on endpoints protected by GravityZone include Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft SQL Server. In addition, GravityZone Email Security protects Energizer against email threats, such as business email compromise (BEC) and phishing. Energizer relies on GravityZone Patch Management to automate patching of operating systems and applications and GravityZone Full-Disk Encryption to automate management of encryption keys. Energizer also uses GravityZone's Sandbox Analyzer to analyze suspicious files, detonate payloads and report malicious intent and HyperDetect for its tunable machine learning and stealth attack detection technologies. The Bitdefender deployment provided a pleasant surprise for Energizer's information security team. Vincent Marshall, Information Security Engineer, Energizer, recalls, "The GravityZone

Energizer Holdings, Inc. is one of the world's largest manufacturers and distributors of primary batteries, portable lights, and auto care appearance, performance, refrigerant, and fragrance products. The company's globally recognized brands include Energizer®, Armor All®, Eveready®, Rayovac®, STP®, Varta®, A/C Pro®, Refresh Your Car!®, California Scents®, Driven®, Bahama & Co.®, LEXOL®, Eagle One®, Nu Finish®, Scratch Doctor®, and Tuff Stuff®.
Industry Manufacturing
Headquarters St. Louis, Missouri USA
Employees 7,500 (IT staff, 120)
Results - Reduced time on incident
response by 50 percent
- Zero outbreaks
- 100 percent patch compliance
- Endpoint-related security incidents dropped by 80-90 percent

Case Study

implementation was one of my favorite rollouts in a Fortune 500 enterprise environment. During the deployment, GravityZone automatically removed active malware instances even before it was fully installed or executed the first scan. This experience inspired tremendous confidence in Bitdefender."
THE RESULTS
Energizer got everything Bitdefender promised, according to Rodenberg: "We don't have to worry about inflated marketing statements from Bitdefender. They deliver on their promise of keeping out malware, ransomware, and advanced persistent threats." One particularly insidious threat Bitdefender stymied was a foreign network attempting to divert internal traffic. By detecting the URL, Bitdefender GravityZone helped Energizer pinpoint and block the threat.
"GravityZone is a great all-around robust solution," states Rodenberg. "We've had zero outbreaks since moving to Bitdefender. We get great tactile feedback on virtually any threat. By blocking command-and-control URLs and other intrusions, GravityZone has consistently foiled phishing campaigns and ransomware attempting to execute on our servers and laptops."
Energizer's security analysts credit GravityZone with better, more efficient incident response, says Marshall: "We're getting more insight on the kill chain or process all the way to the endpoint with GravityZone. We've also reduced our time on security investigation and resolution by 50 percent."
The security team relies on GravityZone to view and control security across the infrastructure, including physical, virtual, cloud, laptops, and servers. Marshall states, "We use the GravityZone cloud console to block hashes from zero-day threats or update policies across thousands of endpoints with a single click. Rather than analyze alerts individually, we can analyze them in parallel and correlate events. That helps us respond quicker and more accurately."
With a comprehensive security strategy, Energizer IT at times must consolidate IT assets across multiple locations. With GravityZone Full-Disk Encryption, Energizer ensures that laptops and stored data and applications are only accessible to authorized users.
Patch management also has become more streamlined and successful at Energizer. "GravityZone Patch Management has helped roll out patches more quickly and we have 100 percent patch compliance," reports Rodenberg. "We also now can verify patch level at the endpoint, which facilitates audits and compliance."
Since moving to Bitdefender, Rodenberg estimates that the volume of endpoint-related security incidents has dropped by 80-90 percent. He adds, "GravityZone has been a night and day difference for our users. Not only are their workstations and laptops more secure, but they don't deal with performance slowdowns during scans."
Rodenberg adds, "When COVID-19 hit and we had to quickly pivot to remote work, GravityZone provided the latest security binaries and virus definitions to our devices that were off-network. Without Bitdefender, it would have been a superhuman effort to provide this level of security to people working at home."
Energizer also highly values the relationship with the Bitdefender team, according to Rodenberg: "Bitdefender has been outstanding in their communications and responsiveness. The last time we contacted support, they resolved the issue before we got off the call. They actively solicit us for feedback and work with engineering to include certain requests in future releases."

"When COVID-19 hit and we had to quickly pivot to remote work, GravityZone provided the latest security binaries and virus definitions to our devices that were off-network. Without Bitdefender, it would have been a superhuman effort to provide this level of security to people working at home."
Craig Rodenberg, Information Security Architect, Energizer
Bitdefender Footprint - GravityZone Business
Security Enterprise - GravityZone Email Security - GravityZone Patch
Management - GravityZone Full-Disk
Encryption
IT Environment - Citrix XenApp - Citrix XenDesktop - Citrix XenServer - Microsoft Active Directory - Microsoft Azure - Microsoft Hyper-V - Microsoft SQL Server
Operating Systems - Apple macOS - Linux - Microsoft Windows

31032022-Bitdefender-Business-CaseStudy-Energizer-NoLocalization-creat6022-A4-en_EN

Bitdefender is a cybersecurity leader delivering best-in-class threat prevention, detection, and response solutions worldwide. Guardian over millions of consumer, business, and government environments, Bitdefender is the industry's trusted expert* for eliminating threats, protecting privacy and data, and enabling cyber resiliency. With deep investments in research and development, Bitdefender Labs discovers 400 new threats each minute and validates 30 billion threat queries daily. The company has pioneered breakthrough innovations in anti-malware, IoT security, behavioral analytics, and artificial intelligence and its technology is licensed by more than 150 of the world's most recognized technology brands. Founded in 2001, Bitdefender has customers in 170 countries with offices around the world. For more information, visit https://www.bitdefender.com/
*Bitdefender has ranked #1 in 54% of all tests by AV-Comparatives 2018-2021 for real-world protection, performance, malware protection & advanced threat protection.
All Rights Reserved. © 2022 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are property of their respective owners.

