Datasheet
GravityZone Security EDR Cloud
Advanced Endpoint Detection and Response
Cyber-criminals are growing ever more sophisticated and today's advanced attacks are increasingly difficult to detect. Using techniques that individually look like routine behavior, an attacker may access your infrastructure and remain undetected for months, significantly increasing the risk of a costly data breach. When your existing endpoint security doesn't provide the advanced attack detection and response required ­ adding GravityZone EDR Cloud quickly and effectively strengthens your security operations.
GravityZone EDR Cloud monitors your network to uncover suspicious activity early and provides the tools you need to fight off cyber-attacks. By integrating Bitdefender's award-winning machine-learning, cloud-scanning and sandbox analyzer to it can detect activity that evades traditional endpoint prevention mechanisms. It provides full visibility on the techniques, tactics and procedures (TTPs) being used in active attacks while providing comprehensive search capabilities for specific indicators of compromise (IoCs), MITRE ATT&CK techniques and other artifacts to discover early-stage attacks.
GravityZone EDR Cloud provides innovative and easy-to-understand visualizations with rich context and threat intelligence that help IT staff understand attack paths and identify gaps in protection. These visualizations streamline the investigation and response, easing the burden on IT staff. The sandbox analyzer enables staff to automatically execute suspicious payloads in a contained, virtual environment to isolate and neutralize suspicious files. GravityZone EDR Cloud capabilities protect organizations against advanced threats, while enabling proactive threat hunting and root-cause analysis.
How does GravityZone EDR Cloud help? · Advanced attack detection and response. Monitors your network to
uncover suspicious activity early and provides the tools to enable you to fight-off cyber-attacks. · Bridge the security skills gap. Enables teams to respond efficiently with automated alert prioritization and one click response. · Reduce organization risk. Continuously analyses your infrastructure to identify risk across hundreds of factors. Helps to mitigate user, network and OS risks. · Minimize operational burden. Cloud-delivered and low maintenance, agents are easily toe deploy and integrate into your existing security architecture and is fully compatible with your endpoint antivirus solution.

At-a-Glance
GravityZone EDR Cloud detects advanced threats including fileless attacks, ransomware, and other zero-day threats in real-time. It's threat analytics and cloudbased event collector continuously monitor endpoints and prioritizes security events into a list of incidents for investigation and response. Bitdefender EDR provides innovative and easy-to-understand visualizations with rich context and threat intelligence that help IT staff understand attack paths and identify gaps in protection. These visualizations streamline the investigation and response, easing the burden on IT staff.
Key Benefits
· Industry-leading detection ­ Enhanced threat detection and visibility that enables the strengths of XDR for protecting endpoints. Comprehensive search capabilities for specific indicators of compromise (IoCs), MITRE ATT&CK techniques, and other artifacts to discover early-stage attacks.
· Focused Investigation and Response ­ Organizational-level incident visualizations enable you to respond efficiently, limit the lateral spread, and stop ongoing attacks.
· Maximum Efficiency ­ Our easy-todeploy, low overhead agent ensures maximum efficiency and protection, with minimal effort. For a fully managed solution, easily upgrade to Bitdefender Managed Detection and Response (MDR).
"GravityZone's EDR capabilities provide us with detailed reporting on how processes were affected across the entire incident chain. That saves us an immense amount of time on investigating since the manual work is eliminated."
Sascha Neuhaus, IT Security Officer, Louis

Datasheet
Innovation for Efficiency and Effectiveness
Bitdefender's cross-endpoint correlation technology takes threat detection and visibility to a new level by applying XDR capabilities for detecting advanced attacks involving multiple endpoints in hybrid infrastructures (workstations, servers, or containers; running various OS). It extends EDR visibility, analytics and event correlation capabilities beyond the boundaries of a single endpoint, to enable security teams to deal more effectively with complex cyber-attacks involving multiple endpoints. This cross-endpoint correlation technology combines the granularity and rich security context of EDR with the infrastructure-wide analytics of Extended Detection and Response (XDR). By providing threat visualizations at the organizational level, XDR helps organizations focus investigations and respond more effectively.
How it Works

GravityZone EDR Cloud is a cloud-based solution built upon the Bitdefender GravityZone XDR platform. Each EDR agent deployed on your organization's endpoints has an event recorder that continuously monitors the endpoint and securely sends insights and suspicious event details to the centralized GravityZone Control Center. In the Control Center, the Bitdefender cross-endpoint correlation engine collects and distills endpoint events and generates prioritized, organizational-level views of security incidents, enabling administrators to quickly investigate and respond effectively to threats.

3945 Freedom Circle Ste 500, Santa Clara California, 95054, USA

Bitdefender is a cybersecurity leader delivering best-in-class threat prevention, detection, and response solutions worldwide. Guardian over millions of consumer, business, and government environments, Bitdefender is one of the industry's most trusted experts for eliminating threats, protecting privacy and data, and enabling cyber resilience. With deep investments in research and development, Bitdefender Labs discovers over 400 new threats each minute and validates around 40 billion daily threat queries. The company has pioneered breakthrough innovations in antimalware, IoT security, behavioral analytics, and artificial intelligence, and its technology is licensed by more than 150 of the world's most recognized technology brands. Launched in 2001, Bitdefender has customers in 170+ countries with offices around the world. For more information, visit https://www.bitdefender.com.
All Rights Reserved. © 2022 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.

Bitdefender-BSG-GZ-EDRCloud-Datasheet-DEX4610-en_EN CD-Feb/11/2022 · MD-Mar/21/2022

