Datasheet
GravityZone Business Security Enterprise
Unified Prevention, Detection, Response and Risk Analytics
Increased adoption of cloud-based resources, increased employee mobility, newer developments in traditional and mobile operating systems, the rise of more capable adversaries, among others ­ have significantly impacted how organizations think about endpoint security. Organization have to protect against sophisticated, persistent threats ­ many which evade traditional protection. With limited resources, organizations need an integrated approach to endpoint security that can be leveraged across all workloads and infrastructure for prevention, detection and response.
Gravity Zone Business Security Enterprise is a complete Endpoint Security solution designed to provide prevention, threat detection, automated response, pre- and post-compromise visibility, alert triage, investigation, advance search and on-click resolution capabilities. By incorporating risk analytics, for both endpoint and user-generated risks, it minimizes the endpoint attack surface, making it more difficult for attackers to penetrate.
GravityZone Business Security Enterprise enables organizations to accurately protect against even the most elusive cyber threats and effectively respond to all phases of an attack through:
· Attack surface reduction through firewall, application control, content control and patch management
· Data protection with full disk encryption · Pre-execution detection and eradication of malware with tunable machine
learning, real-time process inspection and sandbox analysis · Real-time threat detection and automated remediation · Pre- and post-compromise attack visibility with Root Cause Analysis · Fast incident triage, investigation and response · Current and historic data search · Enhanced security posture with patch management The result is seamless threat prevention, in-depth visibility, accurate incident detection and smart response to minimize exposure to infection and stop breaches.
Expanding Beyond Traditional Endpoint Protection Platforms
GravityZone Business Security Enterprise provides security analysts and incident response teams with the tools they need to analyse suspicious activities and investigate and adequately respond to advanced threats. With

At-a-Glance
GravityZone Business Security Enterprise combines the world's most effective endpoint protection platform with Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) capabilities to help you defend endpoint infrastructure (workstations, servers, and containers) throughout the threat lifecycle, with high efficacy and efficiency. It offers cross-endpoint prevention, threat detection, automatic response, pre and post compromise visibility, alert triage, investigation, advanced search and one-click resolution capabilities. Clouddelivered and built from the ground up as a unified, single agent/single console solution, it's also easy to deploy and integrate in existing security architecture.
Key Benefits
· Industry-leading detection ­ Enhanced threat detection with comprehensive search capabilities for specific indicators of compromise (IoCs), MITRE ATT&CK techniques, and other artifacts to discover early-stage attacks.
· Focused Investigation and Response ­ Organizational-level incident visualizations enable you to respond efficiently, limit the lateral spread, and stop ongoing attacks.
· Maximum Efficiency ­ Our easy-todeploy, low overhead agent ensures maximum efficiency and protection, with minimal effort. For a fully managed solution, easily upgrade to Bitdefender Managed Detection and Response (MDR).
"GravityZone Business Security Enterprise is the next step in security protection. EDR makes detection more accurate and provides a solid background on what's happening at the endpoint. This helps us decide how to respond ­ whether we quarantine, lock down, or delete files."
Lance Harris Chief Information Security Officer,
Esurance

Datasheet
advanced prevention capabilities including anomaly detection and exploit defense, GravityZone BBuitsdienfeesndseSreGcrauvriittyyZoEnnetUelrtprraisSUeitbeldoactkaSsHeet sophisticated threats earlier in the attack chain. Pre-execution detection and EDR enhancements stop attackers from subverting your system and detect and block anomalous behavior based on probability.
agement interface provides the tools to immediately adjust policy and/or patch identified vulnerabilities to prevent future incidents, oving theOsregcaunriiztyatoiof nysoucranenqvuiricoknlmy terinatg.e alerts and investigate incidents using GravityZone Business Security Enterprise attack timeline
and sandbox output while enabling incident response teams to react swiftly to stop ongoing attacks with a single mouse click. In addition, MITRE attack techniques and indicators of compromise provide up-to-the-minute insight into named threats and other
mprehensive endpoint security platform in one agent and console malware that may be involved.it continuously analyses risk using hundreds of factors to uncover, prioritize and automatically
tyZone Ueltnrabinlehhearirtdseanlilntgheachtaiordnesntoinrgemaneddynecxotn-gfiegnueraratitoinonrispkresvteonatliloynocuor netnrdoplsointcslu. ded in the GravityZone Elite suite:
MinimizeTehxepoensudpreoiwntitahnsdtrhounmgapnrerviseknatinoanlytics provide an enterprise-wide Risk Dashboard for visibility and assessment of prioritized Machine-mleaisrcnoinngfigaunrdatbioenhsa,vaioppr-lbicaasteiodndse, atencdtiuosners-tgoepneurnaktendowvunlntheraebaitlsitiaetsparcer-oesxsecthuetionrgaanndizaotnio-enx'seceuntdipoonint estate. Quickly review a risk Detect ansdnabploschkost cforirpst-ebravesresda, fnilde-elensds-u, soebrfudsecviacteesdaannddficnudstthoememndaplowinatrse awnidthuasuetrosmexaptoicsreedmtheedimatoiosnt to zero in on misconfigurations, Memory pvurolntecratibolne atoppplriceavetinotnse,xupsloeirtsbehavior risks, individual devices, and users to fix misconfigurations or patch vulnerabilities. Reduce attack surface by enabling IT security controls IntegratedGrcalvieitnytZfoirneewBaulls, idneevsisceSeccounrtirtoylE, wnteebrpcroisnetehnatsfailnteurinnmg,aatcphpecdocnotmrobl iannadtiomnoorfedefenses at multiple levels, far exceeding competing Add-on msoedcuulreitsy: sFoullul tDioisnks:Encryption, Patch Management

DETECT PREVENT

HARDENING & CONTROL

Patch Management

Full-Disk Encryption

Web-Threat Protection

Application Control

Device Control

PRE-EXECUTION DETECTION

Signature & Cloud Lookup

Local & Cloud ML

HyperDetect Tunable ML

Sandbox Analyzer

ON & POST-EXECUTION DETECTION AUTOMATIC ACTION

Anti-Exploit

Process Inspector

Event Recorder

Threat Analytics

Access Blocking

Quarantine

Disinfection & Removal

Process Termination

Rollback

INVESTIGATION & RESPONSE

IoC Lookup

Blocklist

Network Isolation

Detonation

Visualization

REPORTING & ALERTING

Dashboards & Reports

Notifications

SIEM Integration

API Support

Firewall

INVESTIGATE & RESPOND

INFORM

GravityZoFnigeuBreus3i.nBesitsdeSfeecnudreitryGErnatveirtpyrZiosen:eTUhletrCa:oTmhpereChoemnspirveehEenndspivoei,nEtPSPec+uEriDtyRP, lEantfdopromint Security Platform

otecting Datacenter and Cloud Infrastructure

tegral part of GravityZone Ultra, GravityZone Security for Virtualized Environments is its server- and VDI-workload security component engineered gility, operational efficiency and infrastructure cost containment in software-defined, hyperconverged and hybrid-cloud environments.

3945 Freedom Circle Ste 500, Santa Clara California, 95054, USA

Bitdefender is a cybersecurity leader delivering best-in-class threat prevention, detection, and response solutions worldwide. Guardian over millions of consumer, business, and government environments, Bitdefender is one of the industry's most trusted experts for eliminating threats, protecting privacy and data, and enabling cyber resilience. With deep investments in research and development, Bitdefender Labs discovers over 400 new threats each minute and validates around 40 billion daily threat queries. The company has pioneered breakthrough innovations in antimalware, IoT security, behavioral analytics, and artificial intelligence, and its technology is licensed by more than 150 of the world's most recognized technology brands. Launched in 2001, Bitdefender has customers in 170+ countries with offices around the world.
For more information, visit https://www.bitdefender.com.

All Rights Reserved. © 2022 Bitdefender. All trademarks, trade names, and products referenced herein are the property of their respective owners.

Bitdefender-BSG-GZ-BSEnterprise-Datasheet-DEX4712-en_EN CD-Feb/11/2022 · MD-Mar/21/2022

