DATA SHEET

Free Edition
blumira.com/free

Blumira's Free Edition
Sign up for free, no credit card or sales conversation required.
Blumira's detection and response platform helps you respond faster to attacks to prevent ransomware and data breaches. It only takes minutes to fully deploy, using the existing team and infrastructure you have today.
Detect & Respond to Microsoft 365 Threats
Blumira detects and helps you respond to Microsoft 365 security threats, including initial access, account takeovers, suspicious activity, and other techniques used in business email compromise (BEC), ransomware and other malware campaigns.
With Free edition, you'll get:
Coverage for unlimited users and data* for Microsoft 365 Easy cloud SIEM setup in minutes with Cloud Connectors Detections automatically activated, fine-tuned for noise Summary dashboard of key findings & basic reports Playbooks to guide you through response steps 7 days of log data retention (upgrade to paid for 30 days or one year)
*Subject to Blumira's Terms of Service

©2022 Blumira, Inc. All rights reserved. | Public

Looking for more detections for Duo, AWS and other integrations?
Check out all our plans at blumira.com/pricing

Why Free?
Making Security Accessible to All
SMBs struggle with rising ransomware attacks Blumira's cloud SIEM is built for teams of all sizes We do all the heavy lifting ­ adding new detections tuned to reduce noise Get meaningful findings with steps on how to respond
Easiest, Fastest Cloud Security Setup
Traditional SIEMs are too complex to set up -- taking months of IT time Failed SIEM projects result in exposure to threats It's easy to set up log collection, detection & response with Blumira Cloud Connectors cuts deployment down to minutes
Security Coverage For M365 M365 is commonly used by SMBs but also a target of attackers It's a great place to start logging and detection For broader coverage, expand to cover both onprem and cloud* Get full support from Blumira's security ops team for onboarding, guided response and more*
*Available for paid editions

DATA SHEET

Free Edition
blumira.com/free

Findings: Coverage of Real Microsoft 365 Threats
Blumira leverages threat intelligence and behavioral analytics to detect attack patterns. We do the heavy lifting for you, automatically activating detection rules for Microsoft 365 to identify:

Detect Attacker Activity
Privilege escalation of Exchange admin accounts Creation of forwarding & redirect rules Suspicious inbox rule creation When files are shared with personal email addresses The mass download of files Whenever an email send limit is exceeded to protect against spam campaigns

Ransomware & Malware
Ransomware activity (high rate of file uploads or deletion activity could indicate an adverse encryption process) Malware campaigns detected in SharePoint and OneDrive Malware campaigns detected after delivery Malware auto-purge failed due to user configuration (Microsoft's email protection features disabled)

Unusual Behavior
Any activity from anonymous or suspicious IP addresses Activity from infrequent countries or terminated users Any unusual external file activity Increases in phishing emails or ISPs (internet service providers) for an OAuth application Any suspicious email sending patterns detected
©2022 Blumira, Inc. All rights reserved. | Public

User & Access Security
Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is disabled for an Azure Active Directory (AD) user Anomalous access attempts or the creation or deletion of an application password Anytime a user clicks on a malicious URL or is restricted from sending an email Any impossible travel activity, indicating unauthorized access Multiple failed user logon attempts

DATA SHEET

Free Edition
blumira.com/free

Deeper Visibility Into Microsoft 365
With Blumira's Microsoft 365 reports, your organization can track security trends over time to learn about your attack surface. No knowledge of complex query languages required to run a report.
Here are a few examples of pre-built reports you get for free:
Disabled Azure AD accounts, deleted contacts and any group changes Password changes or resets, and user or device added Failed user login attempts, overall login reports and logins outside of U.S., Canada and Mexico Impossible travel activity and successful logins outside of the U.S. Delegation of mailbox permissions, mail items accessed (other than the owner) and emails forwarded to new domains Files previewed or accessed - SharePoint
Upgrade to a paid edition for advanced reporting features:
Easily customize and schedule reports to send automatically to your team Drill down deeper into report details for investigation and compliance use cases
View plans and pricing at blumira.com/pricing

Benefits of Blumira:
Faster time to security deploy in minutes, 5x faster than industry average
Replace your SOC automate manual triage and response
Lower TCO - all-in-one platform priced per user (not data or endpoints)
Access to security experts - responsive support included; no need for inhouse analysts
"We chose Blumira for its simplicity ­ I needed a solution that would simplify, consolidate and show me what I really need to see."
- Jim Paolicelli, IT Director, Atlantic Constructors

Summary Dashboard of Free Edition
©2022 Blumira, Inc. All rights reserved. | Public

Sign Up Free! blumira.com/free

DATA SHEET
Upgrade to Unlock Greater Security Value
It's easy to upgrade to a paid edition, including Microsoft 365, Cloud and Advanced for:
24/7 Support* - Blumira's security operations team is on standby to answer questions about findings and help with guided response Expanded Coverage - Gain broader visibility across your entire environment with additional cloud or unlimited third-party integrations Automated Response - Block threats immediately through Blumira's platform with dynamic blocklists, reducing manual remediation Extended Data Retention - Get on-demand access to historical data for compliance and cybersecurity insurance requirements, up to one year *Available for urgent priority issues View plans and pricing at blumira.com/pricing
Security Made Accessible to All
Detailed Threat Analysis Playbooks For Response
Direct Message a Security Expert*
*Available for paid editions
©2022 Blumira, Inc. All rights reserved. | Public

Free Edition
blumira.com/free
"I would recommend Blumira -- it makes our daily job so much easier and it's simple to set up security for our customers. We only receive alerts that we need to act upon."
- Adam Thomas, Director of Cybersecurity, Path Forward IT (MSP)
"SIEMs have been unreachable for small or medium-sized companies for far too long and we are glad to say that with Blumira, that's not the case anymore."
- David S. CISO
Sign Up Free! blumira.com/free

