Case study
Telia Company shores up its defenses with privileged access security from Nokia
NETGUARD IDENTITY ACCESS MANAGER, PART OF THE NOKIA NE TGUARD ADAPTIVE SECURIT Y OPER ATIONS (NASO) SUITE

As Telia Company's operations grew, an increasing number of users, both internal and external, needed access to its systems and data. As more and more users adopted remote working and cloud-based storage and collaboration tools into their critical business processes, the company's small security team struggled to keep up. Telia needed a way to simplify privileged access control without compromising on security. Nokia's NetGuard Identity Access Manager provided simple, fully auditable user access management with advanced threat detection capabilities to keep employees connected and systems safe.
2 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Business benefits
Secure management and rotation of privileged
credentials to reduce risk
Streamlined administrator and end user workflows for more
efficient operations
Automated recording and storage of privileged sessions
to improve audit cycles
3 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Challenge
With fixed voice, broadband and mobile customers in seven countries and 10,000 employees spread across Sweden and Finland, network security is critically important to Telia Company's operations. But with more staff and partners needing access to the company's systems, maintaining that security was proving increasingly challenging.
As usage of Telia's IT platform skyrocketed, the company sought to increase the security of its assets and services by enforcing more consistent privileged access policies across its environment. The information security team set out to identify a solution that could not only bolster its cyber resilience but also add value by driving automation, compliance and efficiency.
Telia needed a solution that could not only bolster its cyber resilience but also add value by driving automation, compliance and efficiency.
4 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Solution
Telia deployed NetGuard Identity Access Manager (NIAM) as a centralized security gateway for engineers, suppliers and machines. A module of Nokia's NetGuard Adaptive Security Operations suite, NIAM provides a single point of monitoring and control for all user access credentials related to its mission-critical network and IT management systems. That control extends across internal and external users alike, and across the full range of vendors' equipment.
NIAM ensures users have no direct access to network and element management systems. It gives each user a single set of credentials to access all the systems they need to do their jobs. It automatically handles password rotation, so systems are individually protected with strong, frequently updated passwords without requiring employees to come up with -- and remember -- multiple new passwords. And if users forget their credentials, NIAM uses REST APIs to enable them to be retrieved on demand by authorized users and applications without requiring human interaction.
5 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Figure 1. NIAM deployment configuration

Network Operations

NetGuard Identity Access Manager

Network management or Element management systems

3rd party service organization
Remote 3rd party tools

LAN/WAN/SDN/Wireless/Cloud

VPN

Local 3rd party tools

NIAM M2M

In addition, NIAM has helped Telia reduce audit and compliance efforts by automatically recording and storing privileged session data within a centralized encrypted repository, making compliance with Europe's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other regulations fully auditable. NIAM also detects and flags anomalous user behavior that could indicate a breach, speeding up investigation and response times to such incidents by up to 80%. This is especially important because many breaches leverage stolen or weak passwords -- and threequarters of them go undetected, putting companies at risk of devastating consequences.
6 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Results

With NIAM, Telia now has a single sign-in process for all its employees and can easily adjust individual access privileges, eliminating the need for people to share passwords to cover vacations or other responsibility shifts. Individual access privileges also improve auditability by making it clear who did what and when, and reduces risk by ensuring users have access to only the systems and data they need for their specific role.

By automating repetitive tasks such as data collection, security analysts can focus on higher priority tasks and managers can better measure team performance. A centralized dashboard allows Telia's chief information security officer to easily oversee security performance and the team can conduct root-cause analyses to identify the source of any threat much faster than before.

Figure 2. Privileged access management with NIAM

Computers, Users, Behaviour
7 NetGuard Identity Access Manager case study

Privilege

Privileged Computers Privileged Users, Privileged Behaviour

Nokia OYJ Karakaari 7 02610 Espoo Finland
Document code: SR19xxxxxEN (Month) CIDXXXXXX
About Nokia We create the technology to connect the world. Only Nokia offers a comprehensive portfolio of network equipment, software, services and licensing opportunities across the globe. With our commitment to innovation, driven by the award-winning Nokia Bell Labs, we are a leader in the development and deployment of 5G networks. Our communications service provider customers support more than 6.4 billion subscriptions with our radio networks, and our enterprise customers have deployed over 1,300 industrial networks worldwide. Adhering to the highest ethical standards, we transform how people live, work and communicate. For our latest updates, please visit us online www.nokia.com and follow us on Twitter @nokia. Nokia is a registered trademark of Nokia Corporation. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks or trade names of their respective owners. © 2020 Nokia

