Apria Healthcare Real-Time Security Validation
Pentera, the automated penetration testing platform enables Apria Healthcare to run real-time penetration testing allowing them to quickly and frequently test their network and detect the most pressing needs in their growing IT environment.

Case Study

When my peers ask me for my pentesting best practices and recommendations I simply reply, Why are you still waiting for an annual manual pentest? Why aren't you using a real-time pentesting platform like Pentera?
Jerry Sto. Tomas
CISO
Challenges Prior to Pentera
1 Delayed and Infrequent Penetration Tests
The Apria Healthcare security team managed many tools in order to ensure the ongoing validation of proper security control configuration and processes. In addition, the team ran an annual pentesting campaign that, as expected, was limited and very resource intensive.

Customer Profile
Largest home healthcare provider in the US with over 300 locations
Attend to 2 million patients per year
Lean cyber security and compliance team employing the latest cyber security technologies
Results
Ability to run real-time penetration tests providing consistent visibility to the IT environment
Increase in team productivity, allocating their focus towards business enablement strategies
Clarity of the security portfolio value when communicating to the Board of Directors
Focus the manual pentesting campaigns towards specific business or regulatory requirements
2 Keeping Security at the Speed of Business
With the prior manual nature of risk validation, it was hard to fulfill the promise of a business enabler and adhere to the digital business transformation in terms of capacity and speed to assure security does not slow down the IT operational pace.
3 Lapse in Timeline of Security Validation
The security team faced the challenge of gaining security posture validation beyond working hours and during weekends and holidays.

Background
In accordance with the Healthcare industry regulation requirements, Apria Healthcare ran annual penetration testing campaigns. As a very security-conscious organization, it was clear that this practice wasn't enough to provide the ongoing and real-time visibility needed to have a clear and accurate understanding of the IT network environment.
Having implemented automation in many aspects of their security processes, the Apria Healthcare security team sought to find a solution to incorporate automation into their penetration testing efforts.
It was mind blowing that Pentera was able to find deficiencies in our security within a 6-hour POC.

The Technology Evaluation
Apria Healthcare was introduced to Pentera through Blackstone as both companies are part of the group's portfolio. The evaluation of Pentera by Apria Healthcare was over the course of a single day proof-of-concept (PoC) and was concluded within 6 hours.
The observed value as seen by the Apria Healthcare securit team was:
Pentera was able to challenge existing controls and protocols by running undetected in the network
Pentera was able to identify remaining security "holes" that were thought to be sold
The ease of use of Pentera made the effect on productivity instantly clear
Pentera would reduce the spend of third-party penetration testing and provide the real-time and ongoing remediation insight needed

Pentera helped reduce our penetration testing expenes by 60%

Long Term Benefits
Real Time Security Validation
With Pentera, Apria Healthcare is able to run automated penetration tests as needed. Unlike waiting for manual pentesting projects, ongoing testing assures a state of perpetual security validation. This ensures that endpoint security controls, Privileged Access Management (PAM) processes, and patch rate controls and service accounts are working as designed. Apria Healthcare now has a real-time perspective of their network resiliency.
$ Cost Reduction
Introducing Pentera allowed the Apria Healthcare team to change the pentesting scope from one annual campaign to specific targeted tests that are business oriented or required by regulation. This has reduced the annual security validation budget spend by 60%. Moreover, automating validation processes has increased team efficiency by eliminating many day-to-day manual tasks.

Proper Value Reporting
Pentera allows to challenge, test, and validate existing software configurations, protocols, and alerts, highlighting the success of the security team and its investments. This enables clear reporting of the security programs and inclusion of the IT and executive teams in its progression. In addition, the ongoing tests allow the Apria team to optimize the use of current technology in place and understand where additional investments need to take place based on the findings.
If you want to properly convey the security team's value and contribution in protecting the organization to the executive team and business stakeholders, you need Pentera

About Pentera
Pentera is the category leader for Automated Security Validation, allowing every organization to test with ease the integrity of all cybersecurity layers, unfolding true, current security exposures at any moment, at any scale. Thousands of security professionals and service providers around the world use Pentera to guide remediation and close security gaps before they are exploited.

About Apria Healthcare
Apria Healthcare is one of the leading providers of home respiratory services and durable medical equipment in the United States. Apria operates in more than 290 service locations throughout the country and serves more than 2 million patients each year. Apria has the most comprehensive product and service line available through Respiratory Care, Sleep Management, and Negative Pressure Wound Therapy services and equipment, to ensure patients receive the care they need.

© Pentera Ltd. Copyright 2021 Request a Demo

