DEEP PACKET INSPECTION
BARRACUDA FIREWALLS RELY ON R&S®PACE 2
How deep packet inspection enables security and traffic control of critical enterprise cloud applications

CHALLENGE

When Barracuda first engaged with Rohde&Schwarz in 2007, enterprises were most concerned about the unauthorized use of Skype, other P2P applications and instant messaging. Of course, the need for application control and awareness remains. Still, enterprise concerns are shifting to securing enterprise applications hosted in private and public clouds, protecting east-west data center traffic and preventing unwanted traffic and malware on the corporate network.

Barracuda's cloud-ready firewalls utilize the OEM deep packet inspection (DPI) software R&S®PACE 2 to achieve reliable application visibility that allows for controlling network traffic and for facilitating the secure delivery of critical cloud business applications.
SUMMARY
Area of Business
 IT security vendor, providing networking, security and storage products based on network appliances and cloud services
Challenge
 Full traffic visibility in order to set up advanced security and traffic management policies
 Securing and controlling enterprise applications hosted in public clouds
 Guarantee for uninterrupted network availability and operational continuity

Fast and reliable application classification using DPI remains a prerequisite for a firewall solution to enable advanced security and traffic management policies. A dependable solution is necessary, as firewall vendors face multiple challenges today. These challenges vary from protecting highly complex distributed networks on both physical and virtual infrastructure to a growing number of mobile workers accessing enterprise cloud applications such as Office 365 and Salesforce CRM. In the cloud era, network firewalls are more than just security devices, they must ensure network availability across distributed networks.
Barracuda faced the following challenges:  Protecting dispersed enterprise networks that rely on
cloud computing, software as a service (SaaS) and an increasingly mobile workforce  Ensuring up-to-date application security policies amid the rise of shadow IT, e.g. BYOD: employees bringing their own apps and mobile devices to the workplace  Having a high-performance DPI software that receives regular application and protocol updates without the need to increase internal R&D expenses and investment in signature plug-ins and maintenance  Providing a greater ROI through additional services

Solution
 Embedding the DPI engine R&S®PACE 2 in the Barracuda CloudGen Firewall F-Series to classify applications running on the network in real time
Benefits
 Granular control over which applications are permitted, prioritized or deprioritized for access
 Maximized return on investment (ROI) and reduced total cost of ownership (TCO) by sourcing R&S®PACE 2

SOLUTION
By embedding the DPI engine R&S®PACE 2 from Rohde&Schwarz at the core of their CloudGen Firewall F-Series, Barracuda is able to classify network applications up to Layer 7.
R&S®PACE 2 provides powerful and extremely reliable detection and classification of thousands of applications and their attributes through combining DPI and behavioral traffic analysis, regardless of whether the protocols use advanced obfuscation, port hopping techniques or encryption.

ROHDE&SCHWARZ | CASE STUDY 

Being embedded in their F-Series CloudGen Firewalls, R&S®PACE 2 enables Barracuda to identify protocols like Voice over IP (VoIP) while maintaining a high bandwidth, even if settings are being changed to reprioritize applications on the fly (dynamic quality of service (QoS) settings). This improves site-to-site connectivity and enables uninterrupted access to applications hosted in the cloud, all while simplifying the administration of network operations for enterprises and managed service providers (MSP).

RESULT
As a result, Barracuda's v irtual and cloud-based F-Series firewalls are enhanced to facilitate real-time policy and security management in order to protect today's distributed enterprise networks of office sites, data centers and m obile workers. This has increased their customers' satisfaction by providing a trusted network protection solution.

Additionally, real-time visibility and visibility of traffic his tory on the corporate network provide a basis for decisions on which connections should be given bandwidth prioritization, which is the crucial factor for QoS optimization for business-critical applications. It also helps refine the corporate policies for the usage of applications.
Benefits

By sourcing the DPI engine R&S®PACE 2, Barracuda has been empowered to focus on their core product and on what makes them and their services unique within the market.
Convinced by the benefits of R&S®PACE 2, Barracuda decided to embed the Rohde&Schwarz DPI engine into their product Web Security Gateway.

By embedding R&S®PACE 2, Barracuda is able to:  Manage network traffic volumes  Quickly and accurately identify Layer 7 applications
for real-time security and policy control  Detect the newest encrypted or unencrypted
applications  Preserve bandwidth and speed up business-critical
applications to ensure business continuity  Reduce costs associated with developing,
implementing, QA testing and maintaining in-house DPI
Furthermore, R&S®PACE 2 comes with weekly signature updates, fast performance and low memory footprint and also delivers the highest classification accuracy in the DPI market.

"We are committed to provide award-winning products and excellent support for our customers and partners. This is only possible if our tech nology partners can live up to the same high expectations and standards. Throughout our entire partnership we have always felt very well looked after by Rohde&Schwarz, who have always been highly committed to provide a timely solution to any problem."
Dr. Klaus M. Gheri, VP & GM, Network Security, Barracuda

DPI-ENABLED APPLICATION CONTROL

Barracuda CloudGen Firewall F-Series

R&S®PACE 2

CLOUD 2 / 3

ipoque
ipoque, a Rohde&Schwarz company, is a global leader in the world of network analytics software. We leverage our deep domain expertise to create customized software solutions that empower our customers to transform data into intelligence. As a subsidiary of Rohde&Schwarz, we take advantage of potential synergies.
Rohde&Schwarz
The Rohde&Schwarz technology group develops, produces and markets innovative information and communications technology products for professional users. Rohde&Schwarz focuses on test and measurement, broadcast and media, cybersecurity, secure communications and monitoring and network testing, areas that address many different industry and government-sector market segments. Founded more than 80 years ago, the independent company has an extensive sales and service network in more than 70 countries.

5215423032

Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG www.rohde-schwarz.com
ipoque GmbH Augustusplatz 9 | 04109 Leipzig, Germany Info: + 49 (0)341 59403 0 Email: info.ipoque@rohde-schwarz.com www.ipoque.com

R&S® is a registered trademark of Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG Trade names are trademarks of the owners PD 5215.4230.32 | Version 03.00 | June 2020 Case study | Barracuda firewalls rely on R&S®PACE 2 Data without tolerance limits is not binding | Subject to change © 2020 Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG | 81671 Munich, Germany © 2020 ipoque GmbH | 04109 Leipzig, Germany

5215.4230.32 03.00 PDP 1 en

