Assessment & Role-Based Training for 100+ IAM Team

CASE STUDY

The Challenge
Cybersecurity Executive Directors were looking to standardize and revamp training for the Identity and Access Management (IAM) team. Their ultimate objective was to have the IAM team take on more cybersecurity tasks and match the skills of a traditional SOC Tier I Analyst.
They typically relied on SANS for certification preparation and allowed employees to self-select training based on their interests. However, with a diverse team of 115, leadership understood it wasn't practical to continue spending $1M+ per year on training without a formal plan, learning path, or metrics to identify training needs or knowledge and skill improvement. SANS didn't allow them to optimize their training budget nor to have a cohesive strategy to develop talent.
The Solution
Here's how CyberVista developed a custom cybersecurity training program for the client:
· Data-Driven Approach: Before recommending any training program, CyberVista first deployed the NICE Workforce Diagnostic to create employee skill profiles and establish a clear baseline for an initial cohort of 60 practitioners.
· Custom Training Roadmap: Based on the diagnostic results, CyberVista built a custom one-year roadmap of configured training designed to develop the necessary skills for a SOC Tier I role. Comprised of modular lessons from CyberVista's role-based portfolio, the program covered everything from foundational cybersecurity concepts to technical security operations processes, procedures, and tools.

· Flexible Scheduling: With a globally-decentralized workforce, leadership needed a training program that was flexible enough to adhere to employee availability and different time zones. The training was offered to several cohorts and spaced out over multiple months, which included both live online sessions and instructor office hours at a time that was most convenient to each population.
The Results
Following the initial diagnostic assessment for 60 individuals and training evaluation, leadership promptly implemented a comprehensive solution incorporating data-driven, role-based training instead of relying on certification and questionable training investments to upskill employees. Since then, leadership has added new cohorts­nearly doubling their commitment­for additional employees and continues to collaborate with CyberVista to ensure their IAM team has the best training experience as needs evolve. In the first three months of this engagement, the organization has reduced its training costs by approximately 40% by switching to CyberVista.
Early metrics also show 83% of participants are fully engaged in their training program, leading to a 14% average assessment score improvement.
email: sales@cybervista.net | cybervista.net

Our Value
Where other training providers leave leaders with no measurable way to answer the question, "Did this make us better at what we do?", CyberVista provides training with purpose. Here's how we're different:

DATA-DRIVEN
Drive employee accountability and measure improvements with robust performance analytics and detailed insights reports.

CONFIGURABLE
Training tailored for your organization. We help build your roadmap based on current skills gaps, your schedule, and organizational goals.

EFFECTIVE
Spend more deliberately on training and better measure the effectiveness of your investment with a diagnostics-first approach.

CREDIBLE
Our solutions adhere to industry standards such as the NICE Framework and top certification bodies including (ISC)², ISACA, EC-Council, and CompTIA.

About CyberVista
CyberVista is a cybersecurity training and workforce development company. Our company was established in 2016 based on a profound need to change the way organizations identify and develop cybersecurity talent. Our data-driven approach gives organizations the visibility to make better training decisions, build the right skills, and drive defense.
CyberVista, a Graham Holdings Company 1300 17th Street North, 17th Floor Arlington, VA 22209

"CyberVista has been an excellent education partner. In
this case, the term `partner' is meaningful and not an alternative for `vendor.'"
Chris Bridge Palo Alto Networks
Let's talk.
Whether training a small team or hundreds within your workforce, we look forward to the potential of working with you and your organization on your next initiative. For further information please email sales@cybervista.net or call 844-558-4782.

