LIONBRIDGE
Keeping Global Conversations Going - Securely

RANDORI RECON | CASE STUDY

OVERVIEW NEED Serving a growing global market for content translation, Lionbridge needed a continuous and trusted way to discover and securely manage new SaaS and cloud applications.
SOLUTION Lionbridge selected Randori Recon as their trusted attack surface management solution to provide continuous external monitoring from an attacker's perspective.
BENEFIT Lionbridge has been able to identify and remediate issues more quickly and establish a reporting capability around external risk informed from the attacker's perspective.
Randori © 20201
RP W2100470259

On a mission to bring the world closer together by breaking barriers and building bridges through language, Lionbridge is a global leader in marketing, testing, and globalization technology. Leveraging a combination of human expertise across the globe and leading machine learning technology, Lionbridge is trusted by more than 4500 organizations to take their content and stories global - translating billions of words daily into more than 350 languages.
Trusted by their clients to translate sensitive data every day, security is an essential tenet of Lionbridge's success and a commitment embraced jointly by the security team and their more than 6,000 employees located in 26 countries.
"The largest corporations in the world trust us to get their message right and share it with the world. Central to our long-term success, Lionbridge takes security and privacy very seriously. Working with sensitive information daily, we treat this information with the care and security required - it's one of the reasons organizations choose us. From the security team to our experts, everyone at Lionbridge is committed to upholding that trust and takes security as a personal responsibility."
- Doug Graham
Chief Trust Officer

Randori © 20201
RP W2100470259

BUSINESS PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED
Doug Graham, Chief Trust Officer understands the importance of starting from a firm foundation.
A proven security veteran with experience working in the natural language processing industry, Doug understood the business importance of turning security into a competitive differentiator for Lionbridge. As the company had been investing and transitioning heavily in the cloud, Doug and his team needed to ensure they had a firm grasp on Lionbridge's growing external attack surface. Primarily focused on ensuring his security team was equipped to securely enable new SaaS and cloud applications, the team began seeking out solutions that could provide visibility in Lionbridge's evolving attack surface.
Garrett Schubert, Director of Cyber Security, explains: "While we had always invested in security, we wanted to ensure that our approach to asset and vulnerability management was able to evolve to address today's cloud and dynamic environments. Getting and maintaining an external assessment of any attack surface is a critical first step forward in developing a defensive strategy. Randori made that possible."
SELECTION OF RANDORI
Looking for a solution that could monitor Lionbridge's external attack surface, the team needed a low-friction solution that could easily integrate with their existing workflows. Frustrated with the high volume of false positives provided by other tools, it was important they selected an ASM solution that took a targeted approach to discovery.
Impressed with Randori's unique approach, the team kicked-off an evaluation in which they assessed both the quality of results and operationalization of the platform. During this period, Randori was able to provide immediate value - identifying some key focus areas to the Lionbridge team.
"Randori's unique perspective - grounded in their experience attacking organizations at scale - and detailed insights into our attack surface enables us to more accurately and confidently assess, manage and report on our external risk to internal and external stakeholders."
- Garrett Schubert
Director of Cyber Security

BUSINESS BENEFIT OF RANDORI
Leveraging Randori, Lionbridge has gained deeper visibility into external risk and can ensure their asset and vulnerability management systems are updated as new cloud and SaaS applications come online. With this insight, the Lionbridge team has integrated Randori with a new asset management solution to continuously update their known inventory of assets whenever a new asset is discovered externally. If Randori discovers a previously unknown asset, it is flagged and investigated to improve inventory management processes going forward.
From this integration, Lionbridge has established a strong reporting capability around their external risk and set KPIs around attack surface trends and public cloud security.
Increasingly, Lionbridge's vulnerability management team has been leveraging Randori's Target Temptation analysis to help them triage and prioritize which vulnerabilities to patch. They are also looking at ways to incorporate Randori's targeted threat intelligence more deeply into their threat monitoring and investigation workflows to enrich the information available to their analysts.
"Randori has changed the conversations I am able to have with my team and the executive team around risk. Having a rich and continuous external assessment of our attack surface has enabled me to make attack surface risk a company level metric. We are now able to report confidently on the current risk exposure and demonstrate improvement over time in a way that was impossible before." - Doug Graham, Chief Trust Officer
WHERE THEY ARE HEADED
Looking forward, Lionbridge is committed to expanding their risk-based approach to attack surface management with goals to further reduce their external risk over the next twelve months. Key to this effort are investments to further integrate Randori into Lionbridge's asset management and vulnerability management workflows so that discoveries and priorities can be automatically routed and more promptly addressed.
Confident in their work, Lionbridge is planning on integrating red teaming, via Randori Attack, as a continuous element of their security program. This will enable Lionbridge to further validate their risk reduction efforts to the board and validate the ROI of internal investments, such as employee awareness training and internal security control efforts, that Doug and his team have been implementing.

"As a Chief Trust Officer, I want to be able to confidently tell our executive team exactly where we stand. Randori has enabled me to have those conversations around our attack surface. Looking ahead, I'm excited to partner with Randori to provide the same rich assessment internally leveraging Randori Attack to evaluate our overall program effectiveness and improve the detection and incident response capabilities of our internal and managed partner teams."
- Doug Graham
Chief Trust Officer

Randori © 20201
RP WE 220010076471204459

Randori is your trusted adversary. Randori Recon provides organizations with an attacker's perspective empowering them to regain control of their attack surface and reduce risk over time. Get started with a free 14-day trial at

www.randori.com/recon

32

