Garrison ULTRA®
The strongest Web Isolation ­ as a cloud service

Simplicity, competitive pricing, great user experience, and the most robust security?
Garrison is the only Web Isolation vendor that's trusted by governments around the world to keep their most sensitive systems safe from web-based threats.
Surely our technology is too cumbersome and too expensive for mainstream commercial customers? And yet...

Garrison ULTRA® delivers it all
With a cloud delivery model that hides all the complexity and a price point that is not only competitive but in many cases actually undercuts our commercial rivals, Garrison is making its national-security-grade technology available to all comers. And critically, with a great user experience.
How? The answer is our unique Garrison SAVI® web isolation hardware. Our Garrison ULTRA® cloud service deploys the Garrison SAVI® hardware into cloud data centers, delivering Web Isolation as a simple, effective and easy-to-consume service.

But don't take our word for it
Our technology has been deployed across multiple commercial organizations including Lloyds Banking Group (one of Europe's largest retail banks), but the only real way to tell is to try it for yourself.

Get in touch for a free trial info@garrison.com

Are you brave enough
...to click this link? ...to allow your users to click it?
For some users, the risk of allowing their users to click this link may simply be too high. And for those organizations, the way that risk has been mitigated to date is by blocking access to risky URLs ­ addressing the security issue but with a serious impact on business efficiency. Garrison ULTRA® solves this dilemma, allowing users to access even the riskiest links while providing the strongest possible defense against sophisticated attackers.

1 OF 2

www.garrison.com

Garrison ULTRA®
The only Web Isolation service with an Elastic Hardsec Core
Garrison ULTRA® cloud data centers, contain racks of Garrison SAVI® web isolation hardware. Built around an elastic hardsec core, our pixel-pushing technology ensures ­ unlike other Web Isolation products ­ that all risky web data is transformed to raw pixels. Those raw pixels are then delivered as a hardware-accelerated, interactive video stream that provides a responsive web browsing experience.
And a deployment that's made as simple as possible
· Works with your existing Secure Web Gateway - by adding some simple Javascript to your existing block page, you can redirect blocked URLs to Garrison ULTRA®.
· Works directly with your Chrome or Edge browser on PC and Mac, or with the freely downloadable Garrison App.
· A DTLS session (set up using WebRTC) between the browser (or app) and the Garrison ULTRA® data center allows optimal performance to be maintained even in the presence of packet loss.
· Inter-tenant security for Garrison ULTRA® is built in from the hardware up, with Secure Reboot technology ensuring that no malware can persist between sessions.

To read more about deploying Garrison ULTRA® request our deployment guide

Email info@garrison.com UK Telephone +44 (0) 203 890 4504 US Telephone +1 (646) 690-8824
© Garrison Technology Ltd 2022

2 OF 2

www.garrison.com
CD00000573v2.0 ­ February 2022

