CDW AMPLIFIEDTM Security Services
WE GET THAT HAVING A FULL-TIME CISO IS NOT ALWAYS PRACTICAL.
CDW AmplifiedTM Information Security
CDW vCISO Service

CDW understands that the IT security challenges that organizations face change daily and you need an industry expert to help stay ahead of the risk while maintaining industry compliance. If you, like many organizations, have limited staff or skill sets and need assistance navigating these obstacles, CDW's Security Consultants are available to act as a virtual Chief Security Information Officer (vCISO).

CDW's vCISO Service can help you achieve:

Operational Efficiencies

Reduced Risk

Reduced Cost

Orchestrating the Right Solution
CDW's vCISO service helps you improve the maturity and scope of your existing security practices by providing a technology-neutral Security Consultant. Using a three-step process, the Security Consultant advises you on your organization's security strategy and planning initiatives.

Gap Assessment

Roadmap

Strategy Implementation

In addition, the Security Consultant facilitates rollouts of security products solutions and services in alignment with your wider security, risk, and compliance program. CDW offers three levels of engagement, depending on the needs of your organization. Security Consultants at all levels of CDW's vCISO service provide:
 Knowledge regarding best practices, industry trends and reference materials
 Guidance on high-level design for security projects
 Technical-level design reviews for alignment with high-level designs
 Guidance related to security architecture, network design, assessment recommendations and remediation plans
 Guidance on selection and application of security controls
 Business objective discussions around data classification, regulatory needs and compliance environment
 Guidance around security operations, security governance, compliance and risk management

CDW's full lifecycle of Services can support your business no matter where you are on your journey

CDW GETS SECURITY
Our team of security professionals has conducted more than 4,500 engagements across all verticals, helping clients of all sizes, each with their own needs. We get every organization has its own unique challenges. Additionally, CDW is:
 Able to identify the ideal solution: We maintain an ethical distance between assessment and sales functions, performing independent validation of your security posture and focusing on identifying needs and fixes rather than pushing specific products or services.
 Trusted and professional: CDW's security services professionals have a range of expertise in many technical disciplines and products. Many of our engineers have more than a decade of individual experience in military, government and private-sector work.
 Stable, reliable and mature: Our team has operated continuously since its inception in 1998 and follows the processes and procedures of a mature consulting organization. We use tools and methodologies that align with industry standards, such as: Control Frameworks  NIST 800-53  CIS Controls (Top 20) Program Frameworks  NIST CSF  ISO 27001 Risk Frameworks  NIST 800-39, 800-37, 800-30  CIS RAM

Design

Orchestrate

Manage

On-Premises

On-Journey

Cloud-Based

