CDW AMPLIFIEDTM Security Services
WE GET IDENTIFYING YOUR WEAKNESSES MAKES YOU STRONGER.
CDW AmplifiedTM Information Security
Purple Teaming Services

CDW's Purple Teaming Service is designed for organizations that are ready to take their defensive IT Team (Blue Team) capabilities to the next level. CDW's Purple Teaming Service will help your:

 Blue Team prepare for real-world incidents by gaining critical feedback and coaching on how to better to detect, prevent and respond to targeted attacks before the next incident occurs.
 IT team identify gaps that require further investment in people, processes and tools.
CDW's Purple Teaming Services can help you achieve:

Reliability

Reduced Risk

Operational Efficiencies

Orchestrating the Right Solution
CDW Purple Teamers simulate real-world cybersecurity attacks in collaboration with your Blue Team with the primary goal of testing and assessing your organization's detection and response capabilities overall. This assessment provides a collaborative approach to maturing and vetting your effectiveness. Specifically, it provides you with feedback to understand which alerts and processes are working and which need to be improved.
The engagement begins with attack planning and infrastructure setup, both coordinated with you in order to simulate highly realistic scenarios relevant to your industry. Next, CDW Purple Teamers simulate attacks and provide a real-time feedback loop between attacker and your Blue Team, including coaching step-by-step on improvement techniques at each phase of the attack lifecycle.
You will also be able to interact with the CDW team through a review session at the end of the engagement. This session is intended to walk through the project from start to finish, answer any questions, and discuss next steps. Finally, you will receive a report based on the exercise that contains information to enhance your capabilities, including detailed descriptions of the steps taken, the results obtained, and a prioritized list of action items for correcting any security weaknesses the engineers discover.

CDW GETS INFORMATION SECURITY
Our team has conducted more than 5,000 engagements across all verticals, helping clients of all sizes, each with their own needs. We get every organization has its own unique challenges. Additionally, CDW is:
Able to identify the ideal solution We maintain an ethical distance between assessment and sales functions, performing independent validation of your security posture and focusing on identifying needs and fixes rather than pushing specific products or services.
Trusted and professional CDW's security services professionals have a range of expertise in many technical disciplines and products. Many of our engineers have more than a decade of individual experience in military, government and private-sector work.
Stable, reliable and mature Our team has operated continuously since its inception in 1998 and follows the processes and procedures of a mature consulting organization. We use tools and methodologies that align with industry standards, such as:  MITRE ATT&CK  NIST CSF  PCI-DSS  NIST 800-171  ISO 27001/2

CDW's full lifecycle of Services can support your business no matter where you are on your journey

Design

Orchestrate

Manage

On-Premises

On-Journey

Cloud-Based

Services Overview
The following features are included with Purple Teaming Services:
Feature
Attack Planning and Infrastructure Setup Real-Time Feedback Loop Between Attacker and Blue Team Real-Time Coaching and Knowledge Transfer Written Report Interactive Post-Test Review Session with Purple Teamer(s)
Certifications
CDW has earned the following certifications:

Purple Teaming Services

To learn more about CDW's Purple Teaming Services, contact your account manager or call 800.800.4239.

