Cerberus

THREAT INVESTIGATION AND ANALYSIS

Criminals using the dark web think that you can't see them, with Cerberus, you can.
Using proprietary techniques developed by world leading researchers, Cerberus goes deeper than crawlers alone. With a comprehensive dataset, Cerberus indexes and stores dark web content and monitors traffic, providing access to data that was previously unobtainable.
Powerful investigative features such as case management, automated alerting, target deconfliction, reporting and exporting are offered via an intuitive, easy-to-use interface. In an era of increasing dark web criminality, Cerberus is trusted by the world's leading analysts and investigators within government agencies, law enforcement and intelligence communities.

USE CASES

Law Enforcement
Enhance criminal investigations with safe and powerful dark web search functionality and big data. Create, manage and build cases with automated alerting, reporting and sharing features.
Drug Enforcement
Easily search, investigate and track drug related activity across dark web and clearnet sources, building cases with automated alerting to track specific items of interest.
Child Protection
Powerful investigative capabilities ensure that Cerberus plays a direct role in safeguarding society's most vulnerable and bringing perpetrators to justice.

Brand Protection
Proactively protect your brand and intellectual property. Monitor dark web traffic, search for leaked credentials, documents or IP and investigate dark web chatter surrounding your organization.
Network Protection
Protect your network(s) and domains from internal and external threats. Monitor and track dark web traffic and port integrity, receiving alerts for specific traffic activity.
SOC API Integration
Cerberus data can be accessed via an API, supplying a dark web feed to augment and enhance your existing cyber security offensive.
www.slcyber.io

FEATURES & CAPABILITIES
Dark Web Searching // Safely search and navigate the dark web, including historical pages, without installing any special software.
Dark Web Forum Monitoring // Monitor specific actors and explore their networks, activity, profiles and posts.
Dark Web Big Data // Cerberus offers the world's most comprehensive database of OSINT, leaks, hidden services and traffic logs. Easily search and browse results without compromising Operational Security.
Trend Monitoring // Monitor high-level trends on the dark web to gain the big picture and provide context.
Meta Data and Contextual Analysis // Use meta data and analytics to gain sophisticated insights and contextual understanding of dark web activity.
API Integration // Versatile implementation options enable seamless integration with your existing SOC, offering a powerful dark web feed into your security tooling.
Dark Web Traffic // Monitor network activity across multiple networks and domains - receive alerts for specific traffic activity.

Case Management // Maintain, audit and report on multiple investigations across multiple teams.
Automated Activity Alerts // Receive automated alerts, tailored to your requirements. Track bad actors, pages, market listings, vendors, forum posts, pastes and more.
Dark Web Markets // Search and monitor an ever-growing network of dark web marketplaces and vendors.
Paste Monitoring // Monitor dark web and clearnet pastebins for leaked credentials and security breaches.
Target Deconfliction // Easily deconflict targets across departments, share information and prioritize resources. Get a top-down view of targets of shared interest.
Implementation // Nothing to download, maintain or update and no installation or maintenance costs. Flexible integration options with the choice of a pure SaaS or on-premise solution.
Support // A selection of support services are available, including 24/7 technical support, team training and systems/API integration.
Alerting // monitor and set alerts for threat actors and ransomware sites.

Searchlight Security: Protecting society from the threats of the dark web
Searchlight Security is mission-proven as the world's leading provider of dark web intelligence and tools, protecting society from the threats of the dark web. Trusted by the world's most advanced government agencies and businesses; enabling them to go further, faster and deeper into the dark web.

www.slcyber.io enquires@slcyber.io
UK Headquarters Suite 63, Pure Offices, 1 Port Way, Port Solent, Portsmouth PO6 4TY +44 (0)345 862 2925
USA Headquarters 900 16th Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20006 +1 (202) 684 7516

www.slcyber.io

