A CIO'S GUIDE TO RETHINKING
COMPLIANCE
HOW TO TRANSFORM YOUR IT ORGANIZATION WITH BETTER PROCESS CONTROL IN 2020

WHAT'S INSIDE?
A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Chapter 01
01 Let's get on the same page
02 Is this book for you? 02 How this e-book will transform your processes,
and for good 03 Compliant with what? 04 Why is compliance so pressing now?
Chapter 02
06 Compliance and the rules
07 Compliance: Liberation through rules 09 Compliance and the need for process control 10 Should you drastically change?
Chapter 03
12 Should you drastically change?
13 The drivers 15 The SPA team and shared responsibilities 16 What should the SPA team muse on?

Chapter 04
20 Serving compliance on a silver platter
21 Education prevails over force 22 Subtle marketing
Chapter 05
26 The three Ps of compliance
28 The connections between people, processes, and products
31 Law 33 Standards 34 Audits
Chapter 06
37 Nurturing accountability
40 Documents: Your primary instruments 42 Activity register 43 Activity tree 46 The RACI magic 48 The first step of your compliance framework

Chapter 07
51 Handling assets the right way
53 Asset classification 54 Personal data 56 Information asset register (IAR) 57 Data flow diagrams (DFDs) 61 Scope of an IAR: Process and product 63 IARs and the 3P framework
Chapter 08
66 The "R" word that matters
67 Risk 70 Risk analysis in the 3P framework 71 Making risk analysis scalable: Global and local risks 76 Where it all starts: Policies 78 Risk scenarios and controls 89 Data protection impact assessments (DPIAs)
Chapter 09
83 And now, we comply...
84 Standardize: Business functions approach 88 Guidance and evaluation 90 A framework for you 92 Recap

01 LET'S GET ON
THE SAME PAGE
A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Is this book for you?
Consider the questions below:
Are you an IT leader looking to streamline your processes and ensure they're more dependable? If you were offered a framework to make your company's processes more efficient and effective, would you take it? Are you interested in knowing if you should really worry about complying with international law?
If you answered "yes" to one or more of the questions above, this e-book is for you.

How this e-book will transform your processes, and for good
This e-book is a comprehensive, transparent overview of Zoho's approach to compliance. The contents of this e-book are the result of interviews with our compliance leaders.
In this e-book, we share everything we have learned by trial and error during our journey to compliance so you can take away workable methods and practical solutions to solve your organization's process-based issues. This would have been our go-to compliance playbook when we began our compliance efforts.
We share our accumulated knowledge with you now so that you may not have to go through all the struggles we went through. We hope that when you are done reading you'll be able to craft your own framework that will make compliance an efficient, easier, and more enjoyable journey for your organization.

02

Compliant with what?
We call it an "organization" because a few people work together coherently to deliver value to customers. Would this value creation be possible if people did not adhere to any rules?
Who makes decisions in the company, and who follows them? On what basis does the organization launch new products or services, or drop old ones? What are the various roles that an employee can have? How should employees utilize the company's resources?
The answer to each question above becomes a rule, and every employee in an organization follows it. In other words, you are compliant to the rules set by your organization. But if this compliance was all that was needed to survive and thrive in the corporate world, you would not be reading this e-book.

The rules set by governments and internationally accredited organizations are an extension, and a better definition, of the simple questions asked above. That is the type of compliance we will be talking about: compliance with international law.
As you progress through this e-book, you will see how you can take your existing compliance to a globally accepted standard.

03 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Hey! I'm Compli-ANT! Just try this...
List all the countries you do business in. Where are most of your customers based? What regulations does that country have?

Why is compliance so pressing now?

We have long had laws that required compliance. But the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) disrupted the corporate world like no other standard before due to its fines, its emphasis on data subjects' rights, and the way it expanded the scope of personal data (the rights exercised by each and every individual under the jurisdiction of the GDPR), which meant that companies had to take a deeper, more comprehensive look at their processes.
When one regulation sets such a high standard for process controls, how can companies imagine going back to the way things were? The GDPR's disruption was first feared, then respected, and finally accepted by the corporate world. Other laws, like the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), have followed in the GDPR's

footsteps. And companies now realize the value for compliance and the difference it can make to satisfy their customers.
For now, you may be satisfied that your internal auditors are certified; but soon there will be a time when every developer, HR professional, and even security guard must have an authorized compliance certificate to carry out their tasks.
For now, your customers and prospects may be interested in your compliance to a specific standard; but soon there will be a time when each organization must demonstrate compliance before they can even start billing their clients.
If you were planning to make compliance a major driver in your company's processes, there is no better time than now.
04

Did you know? Privacy laws have been enacted in more than 80 countries. More than half of them, including the US, EU, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan, are leading business markets for numerous industries.
05 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

ZOHO STORY
Zoho is a classic example of an enterprise that embraces startup culture. We have over 50 products and almost a hundred teams to manage them. However, each team works like an individual company with the utmost freedom, encouragement of disruptive ideas, and a culture that is rooted in the independence and individuality of every employee. Getting all those teams in agreement is not just a procedural revolution but a cultural one too. The understanding that compliance is not a roadblock to freedom but a crucial aspect of using that freedom in the best possible manner has been key for us. If thousands of people divided over hundreds of teams who have been exposed to minimum rules so far can agree that compliance is more a facilitator than a deterrent, any company can accomplish its compliance goals.

02 COMPLIANCE
AND THE RULES
06

It's me again! Think about this...
How do you think your subordinates and coworkers should approach work? Should they stick to a set of rules or simply focus on getting the work done at all costs?

Compliance: Liberation through rules
Let's consider the case of Zylker Corporation, a software provider that started out a few years ago. Zylker, in spite of being a startup, has caught the eye of many due to its expansion from five employees to 500 in a matter of few years. Its revenue has increased multifold, and people look up to Zylker now as a symbol of growth and dynamic work culture.
One of the main reasons why startups like Zylker disrupt business is their culture of freedom and flexibility. These traits help them survive in the market because they are able to adapt to change effectively and efficiently. This culture has obviously worked, as an increasing number of Zylker-like companies have cropped up over the past few years.

07 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

When Zylker's flexible culture is met with the obligation of compliance, it unsurprisingly faces some resistance. Its culture of freedom, where employees can get things done in their own way, suddenly needs to introduce rules like:
Every time you want to hire a new employee, do a thorough background check. Every time you want to access your own data center, follow a rigorous identity verification process. Every time you want to work with a new vendor, do a comprehensive risk assessment. Every time you want a customer to sign in to your application using a new device, ensure they use multifactor authentication. Every time you want to add a field that could contain sensitive information to a form, use encryption.
A typical Zylker employee might see every single rule like the ones above as a hindrance or even a sign of oppression. If you were a member of upper management at Zylker, you might even believe that these rules will curb your employees' freedom and delay their progress.

But compliance is actually a form of liberation through rules.
If you do a background check, you will never have to worry about a crucial resource's integrity. If you make strict access controls a habit, you will not have to look beyond your own organization for the source of a data breach. If you have a strict vendor onboarding procedure, you can confidently tell your customers that their data is safe even when it is not with you. If you make multi-factor authentication a default setting, you can deal with imposters more efficiently. If you use encryption, your customers will feel a lot more secure even when your systems are breached.
The liberation that compliance brings helps you move forward in business with confidence and authority. Accepting this is the key to establishing compliance within the roots of your organization.

08

Compliance and the need for process control
Fundamentally, compliance is just a set of rules. But is that all there is to it? We'd argue compliance is much more than that. It is also:
An assertion, a reassurance that your process is working the way it should and is achieving its objectives. A much-needed brake for your company. Imagine what would happen if your organization didn't have any brakes--you'd have to keep a modest pace to avoid running into obstacles or endangering those around you. A permanent reality check to remind you that your processes must always be worked on. Above all else, an entry ticket: something that your customers use to let you be a part of their business.
More than being a rule, compliance is a platform that literally raises your standards. Your efforts towards compliance will improve your process control. When everything goes according to plan, the process seems to be in control. But, in reality, things can get out of hand. When you comply with these rules, you increase your chances of getting the process back under control as smoothly and quickly as possible.
When you are compliant, you can confidently propel your business forward, and your compliance will answer most of the questions asked of you.
09 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

It's me again! Try this..
In the last six months, what is the most dramatic change your company has seen? It could be the decision to buy new software or relocate offices. In what ways and how much did this change affect your everyday work? How long did it take you to adapt to this change?

Should you drastically change?
When you introduce these rules, you are bound to think there is a huge change coming your way. But the change is just in how things are done and not what is done. The rules in the previous section are minor modifications and enhancements to the processes that your business already has is in place.
There is a good chance that you already have what most of the laws demand.
The changes required for organizations to become compliant are far from drastic, but they require a higher level of understanding and a new approach to processes.

10

ZOHO STORY
Did Zoho drastically and quickly make a number of changes to its processes? The answer is a big no. Just like any successful organization, we already had our process controls--the ones required to run the company smoothly and efficiently. Thanks to ISO certifications, we got a taste of international standards. However, we still had our work cut out to adapt to a new wave of compliance with rising number of international laws and standards. How did we adapt? We realized the value of what we already had. After gaining a thorough understanding of the controls required by the GDPR, and other laws we needed to comply with, we built those controls on top of the ones we already had. The result? The changes we needed to make were smooth, simple, and gradual.
Compliance does not ask you to redo everything and wreak havoc. It simply asks you to review your processes, add controls, and strengthen those controls to lift your organization to international standards. And that's exactly what we did.
11 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

03 MUSINGS OF
THE MIDDLEMEN
12

It's me again! Try this...
List the people in your organization whom you should contact about:
1. Security incidents like hacking 2. Privacy-related data breaches 3. Reviewing the risk of introducing a new operation

The drivers
What do you need to generate a wave that reaches every corner of a system? An epicenter. In this case, you want to ensure every department, employee, and function in your company is compliant. The epicenter for compliance is a central team.

13 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 1

This diagram illustrates exactly what it takes to make a product, and you can draw this diagram for each of your company's products. Here is what you should take note of:
Each box will involve a set of teams. Overall compliance can only be achieved when each of those teams ensures their activities are compliant. The stars in the diagram above indicate the security, privacy, and audit (SPA) team, the driver of compliance:
They are a stakeholder in every process. They ensure that each team is aware of its compliance responsibilities and is carrying out the required activities for compliance. They facilitate and organize external audits. They manage any deviation from standards in processes.
14

The SPA team and shared responsibilities
And as its name indicates, the SPA team eases an organization's compliance experience. But it cannot do it alone. Each team must do its part for compliance.
Compliance is a shared responsibility.
For each security, privacy, and audit function within an organization, there are responsibilities that the SPA team must conduct and those that the other teams pointed out in Illustration 1 must carry out. Zylker, our example company from earlier, has an SPA team where there are three divisions, but they all work together. Here's what the shared responsibility model of Zylker would look like:

Illustration 2

15 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Note: There are more activities to compliance apart from those mentioned above, and how responsibility is shared varies by organization. However, it should be noted that creating this model and communicating the shared responsibilities to upper management and individual teams is essential.

What should the SPA team muse on?

Compliance is a shared responsibility between each member of the organization, but it has to be driven and managed from a central team. The three divisions of the SPA team are like warriors defending a castle from the same enemy but on different fronts. Consider this scenario:
Zylker wants to get ISO 27001 certified, and they stumble upon the following control:
"Agreements on information transfer shall address the secure transfer of business information between the organisation and third parties"
This control talks about how secure the transfer of information should be when Zylker shares data with third parties, and how data sharing should be captured in the agreement between the two organizations. Zylker's SPA team will work towards this control, but each division will have its own questions.

Security's musings about the agreement
Is the information safe at rest in our company? Is it encrypted? Do the third parties have sufficient technology and procedures to keep the information safe at rest? Through what medium is the information going to be transferred? If it is going to be transferred online, is the communication encrypted in transit? If the information will be in a common place (like the cloud) and we provide the third party with the access, do we have sufficient access control to ensure they do not misuse it? If the information is compromised by a hacker in any way, how do we respond immediately and effectively?

16

Privacy's musings about the agreement
What is the category of information in question? Is it personal data?
Who from the third-party organization gets to see this information? Do they really need to?
If the information relates to people who are not concerned with the third-party organization, should those people be informed about the data handling first?
Can we hash information wherever possible to minimize the risk of a personal data breach?
What is the purpose of sharing this information? Have we been transparent about this purpose?
What is the third party going to use the data for? Do we have controls to ensure they do not misuse this information?
Will the third party store this information? Do they really need to? If so, how long will they store it?
Will the third party share this information with anyone else? If they do, how will they ensure the information remains private?

Audit's musings about the agreement
What is Zylker's policy on transfer of information? Are the transfers in accordance with that policy? Which people at Zylker are accountable for this transfer? What procedure do they follow? How do they ensure they are following the procedure? How do we measure the effectiveness of the transfer? Do we have sufficient evidence that this transfer is secure as per the ISO control?

17 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Although the divisions of the SPA team handle different questions, they assume similar roles:
Facilitators: As its members have significant compliance know-how, the SPA team is well-suited to help any process become compliant. A standard like ISO 27001 or a regulation like the GDPR has almost everything to say about how best a company should function. The SPA team can apply this knowledge to each process so that it happens in the best possible way and is also compliant.
Critics: Standards are ideals, and members of the SPA team are bound to be idealists when it comes to processes, which also makes them the biggest critics in the company. They scrutinize every single process and drive the responsible individuals and teams towards improving it until the process is as close to its ideal state as possible.
Consultants: The SPA team has experts whose opinions should be sought out when implementing any new process. It could be a location change, migration to a new service provider, introducing a new feature in an offering, or discontinuing a product. In all of those cases, SPA experts must be consulted so that you know the implications, risks, and necessary controls.
18

ZOHO STORY
Zoho's SPA team eases all kinds of troubled processes. A security team of more than 30 professionals creates in-house technology for code checking, vulnerability management, education, frameworks, and audits. The privacy team has analysts who coordinate with all product and operations teams to ensure privacy is blended into our processes and products. The audit team has certified internal auditors who keep tabs on processes.
All of these teams work together when an audit, incident, or new regulation comes up. The reason is simple: unless they collaborate, compliance isn't complete. The security requirements of a standard play a crucial role in privacy and audit requirements. Likewise, privacy implications affect how security controls and audit requirements are handled. The three divisions are interrelated yet different. For setting up infrastructure that is continually compliant, the SPA team must be one big group but with clear segregation of responsibilities and ownership between the security, privacy, and audit teams.
We are now moving towards a system where we establish compliance expertise within each team. These experts carry out typical compliance activities needed for their team. The SPA team now needs to coordinate only with these experts when required. The SPA team's main focus will now be on continual improvement of processes and enhancing the compliance profile of Zoho.
19 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

04 SERVING COMPLIANCE
ON A SILVER PLATTER
20

Did you know? Eighty-six percent of employees and executives cite lack of collaboration or ineffective communication as the cause of workplace failures. Fifty-seven percent of employees report not being given clear directions, and 69 percent of managers are not comfortable communicating with employees in general.
21 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Education prevails over force
Setting up the SPA team and laying down the shared responsibilities is just the beginning. If compliance is to become part of your company's culture, you must realize that:
Compliance must be agile. It must evolve with your business; setting up the structure is just the beginning. Compliance must be deep-rooted. Every employee must embrace it and make it an ongoing part of their work.
This is why forcing compliance will not work in the long run. At some point you may have to sacrifice compliance to meet your business goals, only to have this decision affect you at a later stage.
Becoming compliant does require you to introduce some rules. Educating your employees on why these rules make sense is far more important than simply trying to enforce them.

Subtle marketing
Marketing is about letting people know that you can solve their problems. You must go to the place where the people you are interested in reaching are talking and speak more eloquently than them so that they listen. And better does not necessarily mean louder.
Marketing an idea like compliance to those who don't like rules is not an easy task. That is why you must carefully handle the three main components of subtle internal marketing:

Marketers

Mediums

Materials

Marketers are those crucial members in your organizational hierarchy who have a voice. Every manager is a marketer in this sense, as is anyone people will listen to. Upper management must act as the first set of marketers, and the SPA team must carry on the good work.
You must identify these crucial players in your organization and ensure that they understand why they must embrace compliance and how they can do it. The SPA team is well-suited to bring crucial players on board. Then, these players must take it upon themselves to ensure that every person they talk to talks about compliance.
22

The medium is the arena where group conversations happen. It could be a chat group, email alias, internal social media, a project management space, and any other collaborative space. You must identify each of these mediums and ask your marketers to use them all.
Materials are what deliver the message. It could be a simple email, a presentation, an e-book, the minutes of a meeting, or a topquality video. It all comes down to what your SPA team can manage and what works best for your audience (employees).

Did you know?
Research by TechSmith shows that: 1. Two-thirds of employees understand information better when communicated visually. 2. Businesses could gain up to $1,200 in productivity per year for every employee who consumes content as part of their job.

23 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

These three aspects of marketing must function in unison: A product team has a chat group (medium) that discusses new features they are planning. The product manager (marketer) can share security guidelines (material) for creating a new feature prepared by the SPA team. A support team has a forum (medium) to discuss challenging issues they face. The support head (marketer) can share a presentation or an e-book (material) that discusses privacy guidelines while troubleshooting critical issues. The legal team wants to give a presentation (medium) to operations teams on the procedural challenges involved in shifting to a new building. The presenter (marketer) can include screenshots (material) of the change management controls mentioned in ISO 27001 in the presentation.
Once you've used all the M's of marketing effectively and efficiently over an extended period of time, the idea of compliance will become second nature to your workforce.
24

GDPR-ING ZOHO
Zoho's SPA team faced its biggest challenge yet with the GDPR. Although there was so much talk about the GDPR, no organization could figure out how to be 100-percent ready for such a paradigm shift. Zoho's SPA team took up this challenge and started with research to get a complete understanding of the GDPR's requirements and how the regulation would change Zoho's way of working. Once that process got underway, the three M's of marketing had to come into play.
Zoho has a horizontal structure where each product team has its own method of working. The SPA team first targeted all internal communication channels that involved staff in leadership positions; they were our first group of marketers. To teach these marketers what compliance really was and how to go about it, the SPA team reached out to them through our favorite mediums: 1. Presentations: These were delivered on a large scale, sometimes three times a week, and targeted at different product managers. 2. Campaigns: This included an awareness campaign and a campaign to launch documentation initiatives. 3. Social media: Our internal social media portal built on Zoho Connect was our way to reach each and every employee. We created awareness with engaging posts, polls, short discussions, and even memes and invited employees to participate. 4. Audits: As our SPA team is in charge of security, privacy, and compliance audits for every product feature, they used those audits as an opportunity for education. They gave short presentations to make multiple teams realize the implications audits had on their particular function. 5. Culture and events: We used local festivities, like Pongal in our India offices, and international occasions, like Data Privacy Day, to invite more participation. Posters, competitions, and giveaways helped us get everyone's attention.
Above all, the crucial element to getting Zoho ready for the GDPR was consistent effort over a period of time.
25 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

05 THE THREE Ps OF COMPLIANCE 26

Did you know? According to a 2017 study, effective governance, regulation, and control reduce compliance costs when the following best practices are implemented: * Centralized governance - $3.01 million in savings * Compliance audits - $2.86 million in savings * Integration with security and privacy functions - $2.02 million in savings
27 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

The connections between people, processes, and products
"People perform processes to create products" accurately describes any business. Modeling this statement into a framework is where the key to effective governance, regulation, and control (GRC) lies. Below is a logical representation of this framework:
(1,n) - One object under the left category can be mapped to any number of objects under the right category (1,1) - One object under the left category can be mapped to only one object under the right category
Illustration 3
People, Processes, and Products are entities. Each instance of an entity is an object. For example:
Under People, an HR executive or a developer is an object. Under Processes, an activity (like hiring) or a business function (like product development) is an object. Under Products, an application or infrastructure that your company produces is an object.
28

People (1,n) Processes: Each object under People can be mapped to any number of objects under Processes.
One person or department can be involved in many processes. For example, an HR executive may be involved in hiring, onboarding, and grievance management. A marketer may be involved in lead generation as well as public relations.
Why is it not "(n,1)"? Although it logically makes sense that more than one person or department may be involved in a process, that approach does not suit compliance. People always drive compliance by taking responsibility for the processes they are involved in. Every person in your organization must be mapped to a process. You may achieve this using the HR portal you use. Every user there must be able to see what processes they are mapped to.
If an employee cannot be mapped to a process, they must receive more clarity on their role at the company.

Processes (1,1) Products: Each object under Processes must be mapped to only one object under Products. Again, while it's true that more than one process can be involved in making a product, the concept of a product is more inclusive when it comes to compliance:
A product signifies any value that is created out of a process. It includes:
The end product or service that customers pay you for.
Components like software libraries, inventory of tools, asset registers, and even those crucial spreadsheets. These are products, too, because they are consumed by users within your organization.
Every process produces some product that is either sold to customers or used internally in another process, eventually leading to the creation of the end product that your customers pay you for.
If a process cannot be mapped to a product--in other words, it doesn't produce any value--it should not exist.

The list of People, your HR portal, can be mapped to your list of Processes, which is your activity register. Also, your list of Products is the inventory of all value that your organization creates.
When you consolidate controls from certifications like ISO 27001 or a regulation like HIPAA, you can easily map which control corresponds to which entity. This clarity will help you decide how much effort you must put into each area to achieve the desired level of compliance.
29 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Think about this... Complying with standards and regulations is not the same. Standards are developed by international organizations like ISO and ITU. Organizations can choose to adopt these standards to enhance the quality of their processes. Regulations are laws that have to be obeyed if an organization must do business in the jurisdiction.
30

Law
The GDPR, HIPAA, and the CCPA are laws that dictate how companies should process personal data. Any regulation stands on top of four pillars:

4 pillars of Data Protection Regulations

Principles Rules Rights
Responsiblities

31 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 4

Principles: These are the values that the governing bodies want you to keep in mind and apply throughout your processes. In the GDPR, Chapter 2 (Art. 5-11) is entirely dedicated to the principles that must be followed while processing personal data.
Lawfulness, fairness, and transparency: The GDPR gives you six lawful bases, and any processing (collection, usage, disclosure, and storage) must fall under one of those laws.
Purpose limitation: You must collect and use the data for the stated purpose alone and only collect data for as long as necessary to complete that purpose.
Data minimization: You must ensure that the personal data you process is adequate and relevant to what is necessary concerning your processing purpose.
Accuracy: You must take every reasonable step to update or remove data that is inaccurate or incomplete.
Storage limitation: You must delete personal data when you no longer need it.

Integrity and confidentiality: You must keep personal data safe and protected against unauthorized or unlawful processing, as well as accidental loss, destruction, or damage, using appropriate technical or organizational measures.
Likewise, Brazil's Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados (LGPD) lists 10 principles that should be taken into account when processing personal data, such as purpose limitation, necessity, transparency, security, non-discrimination, and accountability.
Principles come into play when you draft policies to govern your processes.
Rules: These usually describe what happens when you do not comply with the law, or they are the standing instructions when you comply with it. For example, Art. 83 of the GDPR describes how much organizations will be fined based on the kind and severity of the breach they face. Rules also describe the actions that you need to take to ensure that principles are implemented.

Likewise, Section 1798.155(a) of Title 1.81.5 in the CCPA describes the penalty for violating the act. Other rules describe how to respond to breaches and how to inform data subjects.
Rules come into play when you draft and standardize procedures for your processes.
Rights and responsibilities: Chapter 3 of the GDPR lays down the rights that data subjects have, and Chapter 4 describes the responsibilities organizations have when they assume the role of controller or processor.
Both rights and responsibilities affect your organization's processing activities.
For example, the "right to be forgotten" in the GDPR will change the way you process data. You will realize that you can no longer send multiple support emails distributed in multiple inboxes. A consolidated help desk system can ensure that all data corresponding to a support ticket is in one spot so when the right to be forgotten is invoked, all you have to do is focus on the help desk rather than multiple individual inboxes.

32

Standards
Standards are what help a customer in the US buy a meter of cloth from a vendor in Asia. Thanks to one such standard, the International System of Units, people around the world can understand each other's expectations without complications.
All communication needs a standard to be effective. A server understands a client through Transfer Control Protocol (TCP). Likewise, the US government understands service providers through FedRAMP. When a service provider gets certified with standards, users will know what to expect of the service provider and will not have to personally test the provider's processes to ensure consistency.

33 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 5

Standards have a set of definitions, controls, and requirements that need to be fulfilled so that consistency is established among all parties.
Complying with standards is a matter of understanding the definitions and mapping a standard's controls to your processes. Controls, here, are measures or certain activities that standards expect you to carry out. There are two cases:
If the standard requires a control that isn't part of your process, you can either try to include it in your process or provide sufficient justification that the absence of such a control does not affect the expectations of customers. If the standard requires a control that is part of your process, you must gather sufficient evidence that the control is executed effectively and efficiently.
Audits
Audits determine what you lack with regards to a particular standard. In that sense, internal and external audits are the same. However, the need to focus more on internal audits arises from the problem of scaling. Consider an example:
Zylker, after great efforts, gets its first ISO 27001 certification. However, it wants to expand further to SOC, PCI, and other ISO standards like 27017 and 27018. External audits will be happening throughout the year if Zylker is to receive that many certifications.
Is it practical for Zylker to conduct internal audits for every standard they choose to comply with that is about to happen? Each product and operations team must dedicate many man-hours for both internal and external audits, and this may become a hindrance to productivity, which defeats the whole point of process control. So, what is the solution?
34

Consolidate the audit requirements into a list of controls. List every expectation you have of teams with regards to these standards, and create a consolidated list of controls. Then, you can schedule two or three internal audits per year to evaluate the teams' current process against the desired set of controls, as follows:
Illustration 6
The internal audit then goes on to collect evidence for the gap assessments and the implementation of CAPA. This evidence must include everything, including email communications, screenshots of processes, and audit logs, to prove the actual process's compliance with standard controls.
35 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

ZOHO AND AUDITS
As we expand our compliance portfolio, there is always another audit around the corner. Although the initial audits were challenging, we were able to include an "audit readiness" section in teams' processes to keep them in the loop and set them up for external audits. The initial struggles also helped teach us how different each standard is. ISO audits like ISO 27001 focus heavily on the organization's information security management system (ISMS), while SOC 2 focuses on system-level controls with special attention to data protection. From an audit perspective, these standards seem to be miles apart; but from a process perspective, one can consolidate them into a system of controls. In fact, if an organization's process control is efficient and effective, compliance with any standard could merely become a matter of extrapolating on existing processes. To face multiple external audits throughout the year, an organization's internal audit framework needs to be robust. That is why a framework-based approach is the best way to sustain compliance.
36

06 NURTURING
ACCOUNTABILITY
37 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

It's me again! Think about this...
One in four audits fail due to lack of sufficient documentation. This documentation helps auditors: 1. Complete an audit faster. 2. Get better clarity into your processes. Ask yourself: If your process documents were published for everyone to see, would you be proud?

Have you ever wondered how accountability can be useful from the perspective of compliance as well as productivity?
Your organization is comprised of thousands of activities performed by multiple teams. So, your organization becomes compliant when each activity becomes compliant. However, there can be non-conformities (NCs) in activities. And every time you fix an NC, you become more compliant. How do you ensure when an NC is fixed in one activity, similar activities in your company don't make the same mistake?
For example, Zylker considers coding as an "activity" in the company. There are 25 teams performing this activity, with hundreds of software developers. A developer from one team wrote some code containing a security misconfiguration that resulted in a bug. This issue, an NC under OWASP , was later resolved. This particular team learned the lesson to be wary of security misconfigurations every time they code--but what about the other 25 teams and their code?

38

There is a good chance that:
No. of times an NC can occur = No. of activities relevant to that NC
How can you ensure that the number of NCs decreases? How do you ensure that each developer is wary of this NC and does not make the same mistake in their code? The answer lies in accountability. If the accountable person for each activity is known and recorded, they will be obliged to ensure that the activity is compliant. Once the NC is identified, the SPA team at Zylker sends an email to all accountable people telling them about this NC, including steps they should take to ensure this NC isn't repeated in their activities. This is the first leg of the 3P framework, where you map People and Processes together. How do you do that? You invoke one of the most powerful tools for compliance: documents.
39 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Documents: Your primary instruments
What is the simplest, most logical way to start putting the 3P approach to work? To put it on paper. But first, keep in mind that many employees have these preconceived notions about documentation:
"It is added work, something that will reduce my productivity." "It serves no real purpose as I am just repeating what I know." However, documenting is the first step towards clarity. Whatever you know about your work is only in your head. Only when it comes out on paper will you actually know what you know and what you do not. Until you confidently document what you do, it is almost impossible to ascertain the areas where you can do better. An institution without proper documentation is looked down upon by regulators and law enforcement agencies.
40

The GDPR's accountability principle, which indirectly hints at comprehensive documentation, is as important as its legal agenda. Article 30 of the GDPR emphasizes the need to create a "record of processing activities" and deems that organizations need to demonstrate "Data protection by design and by default," which implies that you must identify and fix problems at the initial stage of processing. We'll show how you can document the following:
Your activities that are part of work (activity register, RACI Matrix) Details of the products, services, or deliverables (information asset register) The potential dangers associated with these processes, and how you would handle them (risk assessment) The above is literally what every international standard seeks from you. Having this kind of documentation makes obtaining certifications like ISO and SOC simpler, as your documents are the primary and most trusted source of communication with external auditors.
41 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Activity register
An activity register is the most straightforward adaptation of Art. 30 of the GDPR. You simply list all the activities in your company. Even if it isn't used for compliance, an activity register is a good thing to have.
Each activity is a building block of your organization. Your company will have a strong, unassailable compliance structure only when each block is accountable, compliant, and robust.
To bring accountability to your organization's activities, you also need to mention who is accountable for that activity--in simpler words, who will be questioned if the activity goes haywire.
There are multiple ways to go about this:
Method 1: Ask every person in your company to record what they do as part of their job. Gather all such activities and make a register. Tag the accountable person and their
team with each activity. Method 2: Assign managers for this project. Ask them to list each activity happening in their team. Ask managers to tag an accountable person in their team for each activity. Method 3: Have the SPA team create a list of activities for the company based on functions.
Ask managers to use this list as a base and make modifications to suit their teams. Have managers tag the accountable people for each activity. Require the accountable people to verify the list.
Depending on the size of your organization, the nature and experience of your SPA team, and your organization's culture, you can choose the method that's best for you.
42

Activity tree
An activity tree solves the managerial problems that occur when you add your activities into a spreadsheet and they pile up into hundreds of rows, making it difficult to search and extract data. To sort this out, you can use an activity tree:
Illustration 7
This way, you can choose which level of the activity tree you are interested in.
43 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

When it comes to listing activities, it is common to be stuck at a few questions:
What type of activities should not be mentioned in the register?
For operational activities like recruitment and support, instances of activities need not be mentioned. Let's assume Zylker recruits new college graduates every year. Recruiting college grads is an activity headed by John Taylor of Zylker HR, and it must be in the register. However, hiring for the year 2020 for a particular team from a specific college is an instance of recruitment, so it should not be mentioned as John repeats that activity many times. John handles such instances using project management tools like Zoho Projects.
How fine-grained must you be while listing out the activities? It depends on the person that's accountable. If you can't find a unique accountable person for, say, subactivity 2(a1) in the above illustration, then you should stop with subactivity 2(a).
For example, Zylker's sysadmin team, headed by Graham Peterson, is structured in such a way that Michael Smith

handles all onboarding activities for new employees, while the exit process is taken care of by Brendon Drake. Michael handles all onboarding activities like assigning laptops, creating accounts, ensuring encryption, and providing gadgets and software. Brendon recovers all gadgets and updates the asset registry during the exit process, but it is Martin Groove's job to remove email aliases and shut down access to critical environments like data centers.
Here, the activity tree stops at "Onboarding," while "Exit process" branches out into "Recovery of gadgets and update of asset register" and "Removal of email aliases and shut down of access to critical environments."
Should mundane actions, like logging in to an account or accessing a server, be mentioned? This level of detail is not necessary, as this information can be added as the procedure for the subactivity that cannot be further branched.
How should development/ production activities be mentioned?

Developers are often in charge of a feature or module in the product or service they are working on. Development itself can be an activity with subactivities, but the feature or module a developer is working on should be listed alongside the developer's name in the activity register.
For example, Zylker is developing an education platform, Think, for enterprises to help educate and evaluate their users' knowledge regarding any subject. This project is headed by Dwayne Charles. In this platform, Julie Ann is developing the content module for storing and distributing educational materials, while Lisa Bingel is in charge of the evaluating module that asks users questions. Although they are both doing the same activity, development, it makes more sense to include the modules they are developing in the activity register for better accountability.

44

What is the actual role of an accountable person? An accountable person will ensure that their activity is compliant. They will be provided with tools and education through the SPA team.
45 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

The RACI magic
An activity involves more than just the person who is accountable for it.
For example, 2020's campus recruitment drive at Zylker involves more than just John. Dwayne, manager of project Think, decides how many developers he needs. Lisa evaluates candidates and gives appropriate input to the HR team. John then asks his team to conduct the final interview. Graham the sysadmin must know about the recruitment drive, as he must raise the request for assets and procure them before the recruits join. Likewise, the finance and admin teams must also be notified of the hiring event.
Although John is tagged as the person that's accountable for the activity, it involves other roles as well.
Here are those four crucial roles: Accountable: The one who takes charge of the activity and is ultimately answerable for it. This has to be one individual, as having more than one person be accountable leads to conflicts of interest and confusion. In the above example, only John is held accountable. Responsible: The people who actually perform the activity. This can be a person, a team, or an ad hoc group. They answer to the accountable person. In our earlier example, the five-person recruitment team under John will be tagged as responsible. Consulted: The people who offer opinions. They are typically subject matter experts who must be consulted before a decision is made. This can be a person or a team. In terms of Zylker's recruitment drive, the project team Zylker - Think led by Dwayne, who assess the candidates' technical ability, will be consulted before any hiring decisions are made. Informed: The people who must be kept in the loop about how the activity is progressing. This can be a person, a team, or a group of individuals. In our example above, Graham of the sysadmin team, along with the finance and admin teams, will be kept informed of this activity.
46

For every activity you've listed in your activity register, identify four groups that are responsible, accountable, consulted, and informed (or RACI for short). Once you've done that, your activity is owned appropriately. And why did we call this magic earlier? Because it solves real-life problems that you did not even know were there:
Uncertainty regarding who makes decisions Creation of and engaging in non-essential work to fill time Questions over who does what A reactive work environment rather than a proactive one A "not so sure, so take no action" attitude Blaming others for not getting work done
47 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

The first step of your compliance framework
Here's what Zylker's activity register would look like after the RACI touch:
48

So, now you know what you do and who exactly does it.
Useful tips
It is preferable to denote people with unique IDs to eliminate confusion. This could be their email address (micheal. smith@zylker.com) or employee ID (Zylker-1234). In the above example, we've listed each employee's email address but left off the domain name.
This also makes it easier to link the activity register to your employee portal.
It is also advisable to add a mark next to departments or teams [like "(D)" in our example] so they can be located and linked to the employee portal.
The Consulted and Informed columns need not always be filled. For major parent activities like system administration, this may be the case.
The accountable person will often also be responsible for carrying out the task. The project owner and manager will change with projects. So, instead of mentioning so many names in the columns, "Project owner" will suffice.

The SPA touch: The SPA team must create an environment where the entire organization can be open about the roles of any individual. Here's how it can happen:
They must create a central repository where all such activity lists, with RACI details, are maintained. It can be as simple as a spreadsheet.
They must make the spreadsheet accessible to the entire organization, and they must give the respective managers the option to edit it whenever necessary.
The changes to this RACI repository should be governed by the SPA team. Any change in an activity should be shared with the parties under the Consulted and Informed columns so they will be prepared.
If you have a module or portal for managing your workforce, where each employee gets a profile, you can integrate this module with the RACI matrix. Every time someone logs in, they can find the list of activities they are responsible and accountable for, or simply consulted and informed about. Features to search for employees, activities, and responsible teams can also be included.

49 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

ZOHO AND THE RACI MAGIC
With hundreds of product teams, using a RACI matrix was by far the obvious solution to get the most clarity about our organization. Looking at RACI changed the way we look at processes.
People have a better sense of ownership about what they are doing. Once we created and implemented an RACI matrix, the number of excuses for not getting things done started declining.
Determining the RACI for each activity has helped us communicate much better. Group chats are less active since people know exactly who to communicate with.
Meetings for small incidents, internal feature audits, etc. require fewer people since we know who is accountable for what.
External audits are smoother, as the auditors are able to easily point out the accountable person they want to question.
Compliance truly becomes a shared responsibility only when you've built an RACI matrix for your organization's processes.
50

A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

07 HANDLING ASSETS THE RIGHT WAY

Think about this...
It's 2020 and the digital universe is close to 44 trillion GB. But only four percent of organizations can extract the full value from the information they hold. Data breaches exposed 4.1 billion records in just the first half of 2019. A hacker attacks every 39 seconds, averaging 2,244 times per day. So, data is the most crucial asset, and access to it has a price.

Anything that is of value to you is an asset. Anything that you would like to protect is an asset.
This definition is crucial, because it will help you recognize assets in such a manner that you can fit them into your 3P framework. So, what are some of the assets you know?
The building your office is in The computer you use The antivirus software your sysadmin installs The software you use to manage your business The code you develop The printer you use
If you want to list all the assets you would like to protect, it will become a laborious, complicated task. Where do you start, and how do you go about it? Two things will come to your rescue:
Asset classification Its relation to the 3P framework
52

Asset classification
There is no single right way to classify and manage assets, and it depends on the nature of your organization. However, for aiding compliance, the method of classification below might serve you well:

53 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 8

Information, being the focal point of your classification, will help you make some crucial calls regarding which assets should be protected the best.

All non-information assets can be protected physically or procedurally depending on which ones are most critical. However, in terms of compliance, information assets require a more elaborate approach. But first, we must understand what personal data is.

Note: While creating the list of all assets in your company, the assets can be tagged to indicate which category they fall under. This can be done with the help of a unique symbol or a color code that indicates various categories of data.

Personal data
Article 4 of the GDPR defines personal data as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person."
What we consider personal data depends on how we analyze this definition.

Illustration 9 54

For example, the monetary value of a house is: - Personal data, if it is used for tax purposes. - Not personal data, if it is used for real estate purposes. As you can see, data can be personal depending on the situation. To be on the safe side, it's best to treat all data with the same importance as personal data.
55 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 10

Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information about an individual, maintained by a person or an organization, that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual either directly or indirectly.
PII is a subset of personal data and has more implications if it is breached since it can be used to directly identify an individual and could lead to the compromise of that individual's rights and freedom. Here are some examples:
Name, such as full name, maiden name, mother's maiden name, or alias Personal identification number, such as Social Security Number (SSN), Aadhar number, passport number, driver's license number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, or credit card number Address information, such as street address or email address Personal characteristics, including photographic image (especially of face or other identifying characteristic), fingerprints, handwriting, or other biometric data (e.g. retina scan, voice signature, facial geometry) Information about an individual that is linked or linkable to one of the above examples
Information asset register (IAR)
The systematic recording and maintaining of all information assets is know as the IAR. This database is the single most effective tool to comply with the accountability principle of the GDPR, and it will greatly simplify your compliance with many other laws and standards.
For each activity, the accountable person should be in charge of creating and maintaining the IAR.
The are two components that form the IAR:
Activity register and the RACI matrix Data flow diagrams
The activity register and RACI matrix form the base of the IAR, which is then built upon with the help of data flow diagrams.
56

Data flow diagrams (DFDs)
The activity register and RACI matrix should give you the list of all activities.
Each activity in that list will involve information assets.
How is the information asset treated? How is it captured? Where does it originate from? Where does it get stored? How does it get processed? Whom is it shared with?
A pictorial representation of the answer to all the above questions is a DFD.

57 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 11

Data
It can be one asset like an email address or phone number, or it can be a list of assets if all of them are going to receive the same treatment.
For example, Zylker's marketing team performs the activity of collecting the list of participants for a corporate event. This is what the data involved will look like:

Origin
Where this activity acquired the data from. It can be from a customer, a database, another organization, or publicly available sources. Zylker collects this information directly from customers.

Illustration 12

Illustration 13 58

Capture
The means through which the data was acquired.

Process
How this data is utilized in the activity.

Illustration 14
The data could also be captured through emails, interviews, a cloud application, or any other means.
59 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 15
The data could be emailed, used to run a machine learning algorithm, used for analytics, or used for any other process.

Share
Share: The data can be shared internally with other employees or teams, or with third parties. In this example, the data is shared with an event management company.
Illustration 16 60

Purpose
Identifying the purpose of processing data is helpful for complying with most standards. In the example above, the summary of data collected was displayed. What is the purpose of that? Likewise, what is the purpose of sharing data with third parties or other internal groups?
The purpose can either be a part of the DFD, or it can be mentioned along with the RACI matrix. The latter option is recommended, as it makes it easier to compile all your information into a single document that can be submitted to the authorities when required.

61 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Scope of an IAR: Process and product
Chapter 4 of the GDPR clearly provides the obligations of controllers and processors. More than just listing out rules, this part of the GDPR can help you derive clarity into what your IAR should look like. There are two ways to create DFDs for your processes:
DFD for the process DFD for the product
Both of these are equally important, as they are useful during different times when you're in the middle of an audit.
Process DFDs are created from the standpoint of your company's functions. This is where you are the controller--you own the information assets and can decide how they are processed. The above example of Zylker's event management DFD is a typical one for process DFDs.
Product DFDs are created from the standpoint of your product. Here, the information assets are inside your product and they belong to your customers and/or users of the product. You might still find these assets in your data center or somewhere you can access, but they do not belong to you.
This point becomes critical when you do risk analysis.

Product DFDs If we were to create a DFD for Zylker's Think platform, it would be from the universe of the platform itself. In fact, each feature can have a DFD. Lisa Bingel's test module will have the following DFD:
Illustration 17
Each feature for which a person is accountable should have a DFD. The collection of all such DFDs will be the product DFD. It is preferable to maintain separate IARs for your processes and your products.
62

IARs and the 3P framework
In a 3P framework, the right-most entity is the product. The list of all instances of this entity will give you the list of products. The entity in the middle is the process. We have already framed this as the list of activities, and if you've been following along in this guide, you will have already mapped it to the employees in your organization.
Illustration 18
As a result, you now have documents that will describe your process and your product. The challenge now is maintaining this documentation by capturing any changes.
63 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Non-information assets The most practical way to deal with these assets is the same as how you handle information assets: mapping them to the 3P framework. In a few simple steps, you can get the list of all the assets in your organization:
1. Accountable people in the RACI matrix list out the assets involved in the activities they are accountable for. They can do this by simply adding a column to the RACI matrix. 2. With Illustration 8 as the reference, each asset is tagged. If you filter out the unique elements of the Asset column, you have the list of non-information assets.
The SPA touch
When those accountable for a process need help, there's no better team to offer assistance than the SPA team. However, the SPA team should offer more than just clarification on accountable individuals' doubts; it should also provide:
Templates for DFDs for different kinds of activities. Tools to make creating the IAR easier. A comprehensive IAR for one team so that everyone else can use it as an example. Constant follow-up and review of IARs.
64

ZOHO'S IAR
With our process spread across multiple operational and product teams, a unified procedure for IARs was a difficult idea to conceive. Each team handles different data assets in different ways. Although DFDs are simple representations of the data life cycle, they can be interpreted in many ways. We solved this problem with the divide and conquer technique: We divided the entire journey of creating the IAR into product, infrastructure, and operational teams, and approached the IAR from each perspective.
For example, a product team's process IAR for software development may not technically involve data, because they just code. So, most of their DFDs would be similar. However, their product IAR would involve data from customers. Inside the universe of the product, developers still handle customers' personal data, even though they may appear to never come in contact with customer data. Operations, on the other hand, has no such complexities. For example, recruitment and onboarding are activities that deal directly with personal data. But a suite like Zoho Finance deals with personal data throughout its products.
Such differences are bound to exist in any organization. The key to solving such problems has to come from an organization's SPA team. The SPA should use these rules of thumb: 1. Categorize functions into operations and products, or any logical way depending on how they work and what assets they handle. 2. Come up with customized templates for each category. 3. Lead by example; take one team in each category and create an IAR for them yourself.
65 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

08 THE "R" WORD
THAT MATTERS

Did you know?
Risk events can impact your business at many levels. Of those organizations that experienced a critical risk event, they saw the most significant impacts in:
--> Employee productivity (62%) --> Operational efficiency (disrupted systems, processes, etc.) (59%) --> Employee safety (29%) --> Competitive differentiation (29%) -> Brand and reputation (28%)

67 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Risk
Everything we covered so far, from accountability to IARs, naturally leads us to the most important "R" word when it comes to compliance: risk. There are numerous standards, methods, and templates for performing a risk assessment. Suggesting which method or framework you should use is out of the scope of this book. But we will put all the elements of risk analysis in place to give you enough clarity to get started with whatever method suits you. The goal is to make risk analysis sustainable, practical, and easy for everyone. To do that, let's start with a simple definition:
Risk is the uncertainty of not achieving an objective.

For example, Zylker wants to increase its revenue by 200 percent in 2020.

4. Aggressive hiring of resources
Uncertainties: Disguised unemployment, increased costs and time taken for training, hiring
under-qualified resources

Increased revenue

1. Acquire more projects
Uncertainties: Non-availability of quality projects, taking projects that aren't profitable, taking projects
that are too big or too small for the company

3. Agressive marketing
Uncertainties: Irritated prospects, excessive costs, possible data breaches, loss of reputation
2. Venture into new locations
Uncertainties: Emerging privacy regulations in that jurisdiction, laws of the land regarding business, customer expectations vary by location, increased cost of setting up offices

Illustration 19

The company's main objective of boosting its revenue by 200 percent can be achieved through the four steps listed in the illustration above, and each of those steps has an objective. It's important to note that achieving the objective also implies doing so in an effective and efficient manner such that the interests of the involved parties are not compromised.
68

Here's what we know about risk scenarios: Risk can never be eliminated but only minimized. The question is, how much do you need to minimize risk? Risk depends on your objective.
Ask yourself, Which scenarios would cause us to not meet our objective? All possible answers to the above question are your risks, and they need to be controlled. Each risk scenario needs at least one control. Even after applying the control, there will be risk. That is the residual risk, and it is your worst-case scenario. Risk scenarios will always be associated with impact. The impact will either directly or indirectly be on the asset associated with the activity.
69 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Risk analysis in the 3P framework
The single unique unit of the 3P framework is an activity. How risk originates from each activity is best represented by this framework:
Illustration 20 70

The above illustration is how each activity leads to risks and mandates controls. Controls ultimately decide how your organization will fare in complying with standards, because standards generally have a system of controls that you are expected to employ. Risk analysis, with activities as the origin point, will ensure those controls make sense for your organization.
The statement of applicability is the language through which your company and the external auditors converse. The system of controls that you derived through risk analysis will play a major part in arriving at the statement of applicability.
Making risk analysis scalable: Global and local risks
Clearly, when there is an activity there is an objective and there will be risk. For an organization with hundreds of activities, there will be even more risks. With hundreds of accountable people thinking of even more risks, can this process really be scalable?
As necessary as risk analysis is, it is not practical to assume that every accountable person in your organization will do it effectively. There needs to be a system that can help them.
This system should be built to clarify risk analysis and provide it on a platter for anyone who wants to do it. A centralized risk registry with a coding system and categorization of risks is a good place to start.
71 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

The SPA touch
There is no better team than the SPA team to create a register that is suited for the entire organization. It should be up to the SPA team to maintain a risk registry that captures: Global risks: Risks that affect the entire organization. For example, a natural disaster like an earthquake would sabotage all of Zylker's operations. Likewise, a glitch on the internet service provider's end might result in Zylker's servers shutting down indefinitely. These types of risks could affect Zylker as a whole, and they apply to every team and individual. When Dwayne is performing risk analysis for Zylker - Think, does it make sense for him to analyze all these global risks? Not really. That is why the SPA team must collaborate with other central teams and operations teams to form a comprehensive list of global risks and controls. These controls must be applied throughout the teams. Dwayne can now simply refer to the SPA team's global risk register and mention those risks. He can focus on the risks specific to Zylker - Think alone, which are called local risks.
72

Local risks: Risks that are specific to activities and are identified by the accountable individuals.
A good way to approach local risks is through the three security principles: confidentiality, integrity, and availability (the CIA triad). To analyze the local risks related to Zylker - Think's evaluation module, here's an approach:
Note: It is preferable to use a DFD for risk analysis, as it serves as a checklist for all scenarios that need to be considered.

73 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 21

Due to a programming error, the record of one user may get mapped to the ID of another user. This could impact operations and privacy (confidentiality). Zylker mitigates this by having the SPA team create a checklist (control) that the developers must follow. A user record may become unavailable (availability) or damaged (integrity) due to an erroneous build update. Zylker makes backups (control) of its user data to ensure this does not affect the user. If the evaluation method or scoring criteria are changed, it might lead to obsolete data, as the results of old data will not be relevant anymore (integrity). Zylker migrates old data (control) to avoid this. If you can see how the flow of data (DFDs) can be subjected to the CIA risks, few risks will miss your radar.
Illustration 22 74

Risk ID: A coding system with unique IDs for risks will make it easier for the accountable individuals to identify and include risks that apply to their activities.
Here's what needs to be done: The SPA team creates a risk registry, assigning a separate risk ID and a tag to identify risks as local and global risks. The SPA team collaborates with various teams to identify global risks. Each accountable person refers to the risk registry and identifies the global risks applicable to their activities. Each accountable person then records the local risks applicable to their activities alone. These will also be given a risk ID and tagged. The SPA team approves local risks after performing a review.
This registry will enable you to filter out the risks specific to an activity, a set of activities, a business function, or a team. This makes risk analysis a scalable process.

Customizing risk analysis for audits: To make the best use of your risk assessment, you can classify risks further as suited to your organization.
Zylker's SPA team decides to categorize risks into business risks and compliance risks. Business risks are those events that may cause harm to aspects of the business like productivity, revenue, and customer sentiment. Compliance risks are when a particular risk fails the control of a standard. This differentiation helps Zylker during audits, since the organization can filter out compliance risks and treat them separately.
Similarly, Zylker has two types of controls: local controls and standard controls. Local controls can be changed to suit Zylker's operations, while standard controls are mapped to standards and cannot be changed without the approval of management and consultation with external auditors.

75 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Where it all starts: Policies

Clearly, risks are derived from objectives. In Illustration 20, if you assemble the "Objective" part of all activities, you will have the list of things your company wants to achieve.
This list is the base of policies.

One of the members of upper management will ensure that Zylker's website is consistent in its branding and messaging. Any required changes to match the industry trends shall be discussed and accommodated.

Policies are the values that your company stands for.
Each objective in that list is what your company wants to achieve, and the list helps you decide what your company stands for on its way to achieve its objectives.
Let's assume Zylker wants to expand its business, and the organization's upper management realizes that the sales and marketing teams need to step up to this challenge. The organization lists what it expects its sales and marketing teams to do:
All of Zylker's communications with prospects and customers will only be through one of the following channels: Zylker's website, social media (Facebook, Twitter, blogs, LinkedIn), bulletins, webinars, brochures, giveaways, annual meetings, Zylker conferences, roadshows, contractual meetings, email, and phone calls.

When presented to prospects, information regarding Zylker's services will always be truthful. Relevant factors likely to affect the prospects' decisions shall be communicated in such a way and at such a time that prospects can take them into account.
The pricing of services is subject to change with respect to the conditions of the market and shall be done based on the pricing guidelines of Zylker.
In-person meetings, including those during events and conferences, shall be done in a conscientious and diligent manner such that the brand name and reputation of Zylker is not compromised.
The above is a non-exhaustive list of what every employee must know when carrying out sales and marketing activities for Zylker. Likewise, product development, administration, human resources, and other business functions can have their own policies that are published and shared with each employee at the company once approved.

All external means of communication--print, electronic, verbal, etc.--shall be based on one of the six lawful bases of the GDPR. The appropriate

Whether your activities are taking place according to your policies is a crucial consideration during any audit.

lawful basis shall be recorded in the record of

processing activities.

76

You can take two approaches when you want to frame policies:

Top-down: Upper management decides its stance with regards to various functions like sales, production, and operations. The objectives for activities will be decided by the accountable individuals.

Bottom-up: Policies are derived from the list of objectives. Common objectives are grouped, and the policy created will be a representation of all those objectives.

77 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Risk scenarios and controls
Risk is how things can go wrong, and a control is a way to try and minimize the probability (minimize the impact and/or likelihood) that it can go wrong.

Illustration 23

78

But whether a control is necessary or not depends on how you respond to the risk. You may decide to not employ a control when:
The risk does not inflict any damage on an asset. The risk is unlikely to occur. The impact of the risk is so big that any control you can implement won't protect you from it. The effort required to protect your assets against the risk is disproportionate to those assets' value to the company. The consequences of the risk will not affect your objectives in a substantial manner. Your organization is willing to accept the consequences.
The decision to employ controls must be made by the accountable person and must be periodically reviewed by the SPA team.
Data protection impact assessments (DPIAs)
The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has given an elaborate explanation for performing a DPIA, along with a template that you can use right away. However, let's look into where a DPIA fits in your overall compliance framework.
A DPIA is a tool to help you identify and mitigate risks even before you begin processing personal data so that you can comply with Art. 25 of the GDPR, which mandates data protection by design and by default. It is similar to risk analysis but more focused on privacy and data protection laws.
Article 35(3) of the GDPR has laid out scenarios where a DPIA is mandatory: profiling, processing of biometric and genetic data, tracking, denial of service, AI and machine learning, invisible processing, and direct marketing.
79 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

However, from the perspective of compliance, it is safe to say that a DPIA is always advisable and is a logical part of the change management process. Here are a few major changes your organization might face:
Introducing a new technology like machine learning Conducting new operations Releasing new features in products Exploring new marketing tactics Conducting business in a new geographical area Partnering with a new company All these above changes involve a modification to the way personal data is processed. A change like releasing a new feature may not directly involve personal data, but if you look closer, you'll see that the feature itself may come in contact with personal data when customers use it. So, it is preferable to stick to the first step of a DPIA for all changes: Identify the need for a DPIA.
80

DPIAs and IARs
The connection between DPIAs and IARs is the most logical connection between a DPIA and the 3P framework since it directly involves the flow of personal data.
If the change has to do with an operation in your company, a process IAR comes into the picture. If the change has to do with a new feature or product, a product IAR is more appropriate. Either way, your IAR, which focuses on the flow of personal data, is where you can start your DPIA.
Take the example of Illustration 16. Technically, every arrow that indicates a data flow and every box that indicates a process needs to be analyzed for risk. Each unit of the DFD can be interpreted from the following perspectives:
The purpose of processing: Why the system collects the data it does. Storage: Where the data is stored (data center), how much it is protected in storage, how long it is stored, and who decides how and for how long it must be stored. Access control: Who has access, how and by who the access is monitored and reviewed, how much access is provided to which party on what basis, and how much access is needed for processes like support and debugging. Security: How secure the data is at rest and in transit, what features are provided, how the system can be abused and misused, and what controls are in place to prevent abuse and misuse. Data classification: What level of sensitive and personal data is involved, which data subjects are involved, what are the risks if this data is compromised, and how the system can detect and prevent compromise. Backup and recovery: How the system handles unprecedented loss or damage of data. Regulatory compliance: What rights data subjects can exercise on their data based on the applicable laws, and how the system provides such rights.
81 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

ZOHO STORY
Risk assessments are met by practical issues that require patience to solve. Although our SPA team educated teams on risk assessment, there were always doubts. This is because risk is an abstract concept that can be interpreted in any number of ways. This is where a framework for guiding teams in performing a risk assessment is helpful. For example, a product team must consider risks mainly pertaining to their product. However, they also face risks like a mass power outage, an entire server being hacked, or a natural disaster. While all these risks are important, it does not make sense for a product team to allocate their resources to address these risks.
Initially, we had many teams that overanalyzed risks and included all sorts of generalized business risks. Although that's not wrong at all, it did not serve the purpose of a consistent risk analysis methodology that can be maintained and scaled. So, we created a risk registry where general risks pertaining to the company were listed. The product teams now use our compliance framework to identify the security, privacy, and regulatory risks that will actually have implications in their products.
A DPIA is a crucial aspect of our software development life cycle (SDLC). In fact, a DPIA happens even before the SDLC begins. The privacy team's workflow for the DPIA is where it starts, and it ends when all data protection risks are analyzed. The key to sustaining such a workflow for all product teams is to use standardized templates. This template must contain questions, references, and pointers so that the privacy team can get all the required data in one shot. This also reduces backand-forth discussions and decreases the time taken for processing a DPIA.
82

09 AND NOW,
WE COMPLY...
A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Think about this !
Compliance officers reckon continual changes to regulations are their biggest challenge. Regulatory change will always be there, and until you adopt a frameworkbased approach, complying with regulatory changes will always be a challenge. Are you ready to set up your compliance framework?

So far we have discussed various instruments, methods, and approaches that can help your organization be more compliant. However, the ideal way to achieve compliance is through standardization, which will bring together all these instruments in a coherent manner that can be used by anyone at any time without any uncertainty.
Standardize: Business functions approach
Like Zylker - Think, the company also offers Zylker Health and Zylker - Media, which create platforms for healthcare and content creation purposes, respectively. These platforms have the same structure as Zylker Think, with the development, marketing, and support teams working together.
The same set of activities is done by multiple teams and they all make an effort to stay compliant. Yet there will always be variations. If the same process is repeated, does it not make sense that it should be repeated in a consistent manner across all teams?
84

Not only will this make compliance easier, but it will also make the processes easier for your employees. They can, with conviction, focus on doing their processes well if they know that they are doing them right.
The same set of activities repeated across different teams can be grouped into business functions and standardized to achieve a set of activities. The set of activities teams perform every day will now simply be another instance of these business functions.
Typical business functions in any organization will include: 1. Product management 2. Engineering/production 3. Infrastructure 4. Sales and marketing 5. Governance, regulations, and control 6. Human resources 7. Finance 8. Research and development

This is by no means the only method of defining business functions. Depending on the nature of your organization, you can have more:
A software company may choose to split infrastructure into separate business functions like IT and network operations.
An automobile company may choose to split production into manufacturing and assembly.
A media company may choose to handle public relations and sentiments as a separate business function.
A healthcare organization may choose to have governance and legal counsel as separate business functions.

85 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

However, the concept of standardization remains the same:
Group similar activities, standardize them, and make every process of your company an instance of this standard.
Zylker decides to make development a business function with the following set of standard activities:
1. Understand feature requirements from the product management and sales teams 2. Define software and hardware components, and interfaces among them, based on:
a. Platform requirements b. Security: Integrity, confidentiality, and availability c. Privacy: Purpose limitation, data minimization, and storage limitation 3. Understand the risks of components and interfaces, including that of third-party software library and services, and implement appropriate controls (threat modeling) 4. Define entities and relationships, and create an entity relationship (ER) diagram 5. Define tables and relationships in a data dictionary 6. Define the flow of data across components (product IAR) 7. Code using the development environment a. Understand vulnerabilities and apply appropriate controls b. Check in the code at the repository
i. Understand and fix check-in warnings and errors 8. Review the code against the functional and non-functional requirements 9. Define test cases (unit testing)
a. Test functionalities b. Test misuse and abuse cases c. Test performance and scalability testing 10. Review test case coverage and validate functionalities (QA)
86

11. Deploy build in local staging a. Request and obtain machines from the infrastructure teams b. Register the product in the product register c. Deploy build d. Perform data migrations if required e. Perform integration testing f. Obtain QA validation and confirmation that no existing functionalities have broken
12. Fix security and code-level threats, and address vulnerabilities in logging, data validation, session management, and encryption
13. Deploy build a. Request and obtain machines from the infrastructure teams b. Modify configurations to suit the production environment c. Perform data migrations if required d. Deploy build in pre-production setup i. Test core functionalities e. Deploy build in production f. Perform integration testing g. Obtain QA validation and confirmation that no existing functionalities have broken
14. Educate the support, sales, and marketing teams, as well as other interested parties 15. Monitor and improve product features based on usage, performance, and errors, and
raise change requests
All three Zylker teams--Think, Health, and Media--will follow the same set of activities for development but with different instances. Each standard activity's instance (in Health and Media) will have its own RACI. Each standard activity will be supported by a robust framework that provides the required impetus for compliance.
Standard activities under business functions, repeated throughout the company as instances, will lead to compliance.
87 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Guidance and evaluation
The biggest advantage of standardization is the ease with which guidance can happen later. When all instances of an activity adopt a unified procedure and follow a consistent system of metrics for evaluation, it makes it easier for the SPA team to ease the company's compliance journey.
The guidance and evaluation will be based on one question:
Where does the activity tree stop branching?
In other words, for those activities that cannot be further broken down into subactivities, there should be a procedure to guide the activity and a system of metrics to evaluate the activities.
A procedure should contain: Review, approval, and revision controls. A sequence of steps to be followed, described in simple language that anybody can understand. Roles and responsibilities for those steps since the RACI can't go beyond this activity. Prerequisites like documents or checklists. Exceptions that may occur and instructions for how to handle them. Screenshots to simplify understanding. References and relevant links.
88

Metrics for monitoring and measurement should be based on:
What will be checked to ensure that the process is followed? Which parameters will be considered to ensure that constant progress is seen from the procedure being followed?

89 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Illustration 24

A framework for you
The 3P framework gives you a very high-level view of compliance. It is still the best and most practical way to create your own compliance framework. However, to make sense of all the instruments and ideas spoken about in this book, you may need a more elaborate framework. A framework, for all its varied eloquent definitions, is simply a glorified table. Sticking to this simplistic version, consider the diagram below, where each block is a column and each row will be an activity (preferably, a standardized activity).
Illustration 25
90

Using the framework
Every product your company creates, every service it provides, and every operation it undertakes will be an instance of this framework. This framework ensures that each project your organization undertakes will be compliant because a compliant framework drives the activities in that project.
This framework will also form the basis of your core compliance requirements. Here's how you can use this framework:
A list of consolidated activities will help you frame your organization's records of processing activities, which is a crucial requirement of the GDPR.
A list of deliverables will help you form the product registry. This will help you during ISO audits, where you can consolidate and prepare evidence based on the product being audited.
Mapping your asset with your RACI matrix will help you in asset management and ownership.

The mapping of deliverables with the IAR will form a crucial part of your process documents during any audit.
A map of risk vs. control will form your risk registry. This can also help you treat the risks according to their weight based on any standard (say, NIST).
A list of applicable standards and control codes will help you form the statement of applicability required for any audit.
A list of policy statements will help you create policies for your company and publish them in your portal.
This is only a limited use for the framework. Based on the nature of your organization, this framework can be used in numerous beneficial ways.
Scope: This framework can be applied to any organization, non-IT ones as well--from a digital marketing firm to a manufacturing company that produces gear boxes for automobiles. The concepts of accountability, asset management, risk assessment, and a framework-based approach will remain the same.

91 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

Recap
Illustration 26 92

Conclusion--but is it, really?
Compliance is not what you do but how you do it. It is the most reliable way to assert that your actions towards your goals are working. Without this assertion, the effectiveness and efficiency of your processes can very well be categorized as imagination. You may ask, "If I create this framework and maintain it, am I done with compliance for good?" The answer is a big no! However, this framework will ensure that you are in the perfect position to become compliant with any regulation or standard. These methods, while helping you improve your process, will create a platform that will ensure that compliance with anything is never again a burden in your organization.
93 A CIO's guide to rethinking compliance

ZOHO STORY
Creating a framework for compliance is like learning to learn. We can never really be done with compliance, because there are always new challenges as business grows. A new industry to venture into, a new country to start business in, and a new certification to enhance customers' trust will always be there. But the crucial aspect of this journey is that we know we can comply with anything because our processes are oriented that way, because compliance is just a by-product of well-defined process control. Any company that focuses on its processes will sail through compliance requirements, and that is what we do here at Zoho.
94

