Helping to secure the connected world
The CIS Benchmarks Communities are comprised of volunteers who help develop security best practices for hardening servers, operating systems, cloud infrastructure, and other technologies. Community volunteers include IT professionals, network administrators, subject matter experts, and security analysts.

The CIS Benchmarks are used by companies around the world to secure technologies from configuration vulnerabilities such as:
Open system ports
Unnecessary/unneeded system services
Firewall configuration
Auditing/logging
System access controls
Data in transit/at rest encryption

"The [CIS Benchmarks] content comes from a diverse set of contributors and considers realistic threats."
Paul Campbell · CIS Benchmarks Volunteer

We're looking for...

Technical and security subject matter experts

Expertise in a particular technology family, broad security issues, or system interactions

Technical writers

Expertise in communicating technical subjects clearly to a diverse audience

Testers

Expertise in testing various criteria or rules against specific target systems and reporting results

Center for Internet Security 31 Tech Valley Drive East Greenbush, NY 12061 518.266.3460 www.cisecurity.org

"The greatest strength in `Security' is `Community.' Participation in the communities that create the CIS Benchmarks not only makes for better Benchmarks, as we all bring our unique perspectives and knowledge to the group, but it also strengthens us as individuals. Old ideas are challenged, new ideas are introduced, and the merits of several perspectives come together to help define `what is security?'"
Linux CIS Benchmark Community Participant

How can companies help?

The CIS Benchmarks are used in many different industries and are referenced in a variety of security compliance standards worldwide, such as PCI DSS. This has caused many companies to actively assist in the CIS Benchmark community-based development effort. This assistance can take multiple forms:

1

 System suppliers or other configuration security guidance providers contribute their existing guidance to become initial versions of CIS

Benchmarks for a given technology. Vendors who do this will be

recognized for this contribution by CIS in the Benchmark document

and other forums, but the result will go through the standard

community-driven consensus process and will be treated like any other

CIS Benchmark.

2

 End user companies and system suppliers contribute some of their relevant employees' time to work in the community and actively help

develop the CIS Benchmarks of interest.

CIS Benchmarks are developed by a community of volunteers contributing their own time to the process. In addition, companies regularly contribute original content and their employees time to assist in the development effort, which is an important contribution highly valued by these communities.

I am interested! Now what?

How can I contribute?
Reviewing and submitting feedback to the CIS Benchmarks
Propose new recommendations for the technology
Analyzing the technical details of discussions and tickets in the Communities

Volunteers can receive...
Recognition in public CIS Benchmarks documents
Continuing Professional Education Credits (CPEs)
Opportunity to network with cybersecurity professionals from around the world on shared goals

How to get started...
Join the community at workbench.cisecurity.org
Have a question or interested in a specific role? Send an email to benchmarkinfo@cisecurity.org with a brief description of your background and interests. We'll help you or your company get involved!

