On-Premise vs. Cloud What's Better for Managing PKI?
Cloud computing has become integral to any enterprise environment. Running PKI in a cloud/ multi-cloud environment is now the new norm. But, how does the legacy on-premise approach
stack up to the new modern cloud & multi-cloud model?

ON-PREMISE PKI

VS

CLOUD PKI

Security Concerns
High-profile breaches of trusted onpremise systems give pause to the belief that physical proximity behind a defined
network perimeter equals security.
Network Boundaries
Conventional on-premise security focuses on perimeter defense, where, once inside, users who are trusted are
granted broad network access.

A More Secure Future
Today's enterprises require cloudbased digital identity authentication for all users, applications, systems, and devices to effectively secure the perimeterless enterprise.
Perimeterless
Cloud PKI offers scalable provisioning to accommodate remote and distributed workforces of all sizes in which each touchpoint is identified individually and given only the privileges necessary.

"Gone are the days of a single firewall around the perimeter of the network with a relatively safe "green zone" inside."
Tim Callan, Chief Compliance Officer, Sectigo
READ THE INTERVIEW

Dependent on In-House Capabilities
Strained IT resources for PKI management, configuration, and
maintenance.
Risk of Misconfiguration
Mistakes are too easy to make. White hat research has taught us that extensive
configuration analysis is required to eliminate security flaws.
Expensive
Not only do you have to consider the substantial cost of the data center infrastructure, but on-premises PKI management and operation require specialized labor and additional
hardware and software investments.
Easy Targets and Attacks Go Unnoticed
It's challenging to detect attacks because bad actors impersonate trust,
which covers their trail.
Lack of Control
Hidden vulnerabilities that cause an on-premise breach could reach an internal
PKI implementation. Breached access plus lateral movement can wreak havoc.

Flexibility
A cloud-based platform supports flexibility for updates and operations requiring frequent and large numbers of certificates.
Configuration Confidence
Utilize a security partner with depth of experience. Cloud offers isolation from legacy authentication directory technologies.
Lower Costs
Cloud-based PKI is more costeffective, reduces the skills burden on the enterprise, and ensures greater scalability and availability.
Prevents Data Breaches and Increases the Speed of Discoverability
Protect identities and access to critical business systems by automating the installation, revocation, and renewal of all digital certificates.
Governance
Maintain control of configuration definitions and rules without the heavy lifting required to perform daily surveillance and anticipate certificate expiration.

Why Choose a Cloud-Based PKI Solution Over On-Prem?
 Decreases organizational reliance on expensive IT specialists  Reduces capital expenses by eliminating up-front and ongoing
hardware and software costs  Reduces operating expenses through lower services, support,
and maintenance costs  Eliminates indirect costs such as unplanned downtime  On-premise infiltrations provide hackers with a massive payoff,
enabled in part by lateral movement and backdoor approaches

The Facts Are Clear
Cloud PKI exceeds the levels of security and control that on-premises can't achieve. Discover more in our eBook, The Benefits of Managing PKI in the Cloud Over OnPremise, today!
LEARN MORE

Managing PKI in the Cloud Over On-Premise
A WHITEPAPER BY SECTIGO

www.sectigo.com

 2021 SECTIGO. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

