EXTRAHOP REVEAL(X) 360 CLOUD THREAT DETECTION AND RESPONSE

Defend Your Cloud Without Friction
Advanced Threat Detection for the Cloud

Your cloud security team is under siege. They are outnumbered by developers, buried under new or continuously updated assets, and tasked with securing mission-critical workloads and applications against adversaries constantly evolving their attacks. With ExtraHop Reveal(x) 360, your team gains the visibility and AI-powered analysis they need to detect, investigate, and isolate advanced threats like supply chain attacks and lateral movement in minutes.

Frictionless Security for the Hybrid Enterprise

COMPLETE EAST-WEST VISIBILITY
Most cloud security tools can't monitor the east-west corridor, and that massive visibility gap makes it easier for attackers to move laterally on their way achieving their goals. By lighting up all traIFRZing through the east-west corridor, Reveal(x) 360 eliminates a crucial coverage gap tRQGadvanced threats.

CLOUD THREAT DETECTION
Even the most sophisticated attackers leave clues, but not every security tool can detect them. By combining cloud-scale machine learning with global threat intelligence gathered daily, Reveal(x) 360 identiHVthe subtle behaviors that indicate an attack in real time, helping you respond faster.

INCIDENT INVESTIGATION
After you've been compromised, determining what happened and the next steps to take is critical to faster response. With AI-powered analysis, access to 90 days of records, and intuitive investigativHZRUNRZV, Reveal(x) 360 enables analysts of any skill level to get answers quickly and plan their response.

INTELLIGENT RESPONSE
The faster you stop an attack, the less damage it can do to your bottom line. With Reveal(x) 360, analysts can pivot from detection to forensic evidence to response in clicks. Native integrations enable automated action on compromised workloads, domains, and IP addresses.

EXTRAHOP REVEAL(X) 360 CLOUD THREAT DETECTION AND RESPONSE

Complete Coverage Across Your Cloud & Hybrid Environments
SaaS. PaaS. IaaS. Your business covers every part of the cloud. Your security should too. With Reveal(x) 360, you gain complete and continuous visibility and uniHGthreat detection across managed and unmanaged workloads, regardless of environment. Reveal(x) 360 automatically discovers workloads, containers, and applications as soon as they communicate, and peer group analysis enables AI-powered behavioral detections and high-GHlity alerts.

Reveal(x) 360 Cloud Security Use Cases

DETECT SOFTWARE SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACKS Identify suspicious or malicious communications between workloads or outside entities, as well as anomalous uploads or updates to production workloads in the cloud. Reveal(x) 360 detects the behaviors that indicate supply chain attacks in real time, enabling you to respond faster.

DEFEND AGAINST RANSOMWARE The ability to see and decode east-west trDIFis crucial to detecting ransomware fast enough to take action before it's too late. Reveal(x) 360 provides the complete visibility, AI-backed threat detection, and guided investigations your team needs to act quickly and witKFRQGHQFH.

SECURE CLOUD-HOSTED CONTAINERS
Unify security across containers and services with AI-powered peer group analysis to detect and respond to advanced threats as they occur in highly dynamic environments. With versatile deployment options, Reveal(x) 360 offers the most coverage for the smallest tooling footprint.

CONDUCT FORENSIC INVESTIGATION The faster you stop an attack, the less damage it can do to your bottom line. With Reveal(x) 360, analysts can pivot from detection to forensic evidence to response in clicks. Native integrations enable automated action on compromised workloads, domains, and IP addresses.

ABOUT EXTRAHOP NETWORKS
ExtraHop is on a mission to stop advanced threats with security that can't be undermined, outsmarted, or compromised. Our dynamic cyber defense platform uses cloud-scale AI to help enterprises detect and respond to advanced threats­before they compromise your business. When you don't have to choose between protecting your business and moving it forward, that's security, uncompromised.
Request a Free Trial extrahop.com/request-free-trial Take the Demo extrahop.com/demo/cloud
© 2022 ExtraHop Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. ExtraHop is a registered trademark of ExtraHop Networks, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other products are the trademarks of their respective owners.

520 Pike Street, Suite 1600 Seattle, WA 98101 877-333-9872 (voice) 206-274-6393 (fax) info@extrahop.com www.extrahop.com

