CASE STUDY
Lemonade Moves Up from VPN to Banyan Zero Trust Access Solution
Lemonade: An Industry-leading Insurance Company
Lemonade Inc. offers renters', homeowners', auto, pet, and term life insurance in the United States, as well as contents and liability policies in Germany and the Netherlands and renters' insurance in France. This New York City-based insurance company has received the highest end user reviews, with 4.9/5 stars in the App store, and has been named as a top-rated insurance company by Supermoney, Clearsurance, and other insurance rating services.
IT and Business Challenges
Jonathan Jaffe is the CISO at Lemonade Inc. He is responsible for the security of all IT infrastructure, services, and company data. "Our security team is relatively small," said Jaffe. "We are growing rapidly as a company and introducing additional services, so we're now hiring additional headcount for our security team to support the new demands."
Lemonade was relying on a VPN for remote access before it moved to Banyan. "VPNs were great in the late 80s, and they have been `just okay' since then," said Jaffe. "We needed something that was much more sophisticated than a VPN ­ a connectivity solution that would enable our end users to safely and easily connect to our services. We also wanted a solution that would allow us to onboard users with the right level of privileges, and as their roles and responsibilities change, easily adjust their privileges to maintain a state of least-privileged access."

"The increased security we get with Banyan is tremendous. Compared to our VPN, it's night and day."
Jonathan Jaffe CISO, Lemonade, Inc.

The Banyan Security Zero Trust Remote Access Solution
Jaffe was already familiar with Banyan when he joined Lemonade, having used the solution at his previous company. "We did look at other remote access companies, including a number of startups located near our office here in Israel," he admitted. "I also looked a bit halfheartedly at the `bigger' companies, but I typically don't enjoy working with them. Larger enterprises are usually not responsive, their prices are higher than they should be, and if you need a new feature or support, you're not guaranteed they're going to be there unless you pay a really inflated enterprise support price. We were looking for a company that would be responsive to our needs, where we could develop a mature relationship between a buyer and a seller ­ not one where we are taken for granted. That's why we chose Banyan."
Deploying Banyan
Lemonade started using the Banyan Zero Trust Remote Access solution early in 2021. Banyan provides a secure way for employees, developers, and third parties to work from anywhere, accessing corporate data without relying on network-centric solutions like VPNs. Banyan's Zero Trust offering leverages user and device trust scoring with continuous authorization to ensure robust protection, while providing seamless and productive access to hybrid- and multi-cloud apps, hosts, and servers.
"The Banyan deployment was straightforward," said Jaffe. "Our end points are predominantly Macs, with a small handful of Windows devices. Some of our employees use Androids and iPhones. We haven't rolled out Banyan to those devices yet, but we will likely do that soon. We're careful to make sure the end user experiences are really good, so we're deploying the solution one step at a time. We've already rolled Banyan out to about a third of the company, and we expect to be completely rolled out by the end of this year."
Riding the Banyan Train
"Connecting through a VPN is like being on a train," described Jaffe. "You buy a ticket at your embarkation point, and the train ends at a walled city. You know you're safe all the way there, but once you disembark from the train and go into the city, you can roam anywhere without restrictions. You may not know where you're supposed to go and where you're not supposed to go, since you have access to everything. In contrast, Banyan is like a train where you buy a ticket to a very specific destination, not just an open-ended ticket into the center of a walled city. You can't get off anywhere else on the way, you can only go to that exact location. And then when you leave your destination, you get back on to the train, but you don't get to meander around the city and explore new areas."

Industry
Insurance Provider
Challenges
> Existing VPN access solution lacked security and easy scalability
> Employees had to perform cumbersome steps to access their services
> Many administrative tasks had to be performed by hand, introducing the possibility of risk into the environment
Solution
Banyan Zero Trust Remote Access
Customer Benefits
> Improved system security > Reduced the number of steps for
employees to access services from six to one, improving employee productivity and end user satisfaction > Simplified remote access management > Eliminated manual, error-prone processes > Enabled easy scalability as the company grows and adds more users

Customer Outcome
Increased Security
When asked about the biggest benefit of moving to Banyan, Jaffe replied, "The increased security we get with Banyan is tremendous. Compared to our VPN, it's night and day. Our systems are much more secure with Banyan."
Higher Availability
"The availability with Banyan is significantly better than with the VPN because we can deploy as many instances behind load balancers as we want," explained Jaffe. "We plan on doing geo load balancing in the next few months. Banyan offers us availability and security in a way that we just didn't have with a standard VPN. Obviously, we could have gone with a more robust VPN solution, but a VPN is just not the best technology for us anymore."
Eliminating Manual, Error-Prone Processes
"Managing users in the VPN solution was difficult and time-consuming," admitted Jaffe. "Even though they couldn't get into our network because Okta was authenticating users, we still had to remove people by hand when they left and there were issues with the VPN profile. When this happened, it took a good 15 to 20 minutes to work the issues out with each user. With IT management, anything that has to be done by hand is always riskier. Banyan has eliminated all of the manual error-prone processes that came with the VPN. Moving from the VPN to Banyan was like not realizing that having your hand hammered on all day was painful until it suddenly stopped."

"I'm a huge fan of Banyan, and I have already recommended the solution to several of my peers. In my opinion, Banyan is delivering the best Zero Trust Access solution in the market today."
Jonathan Jaffe CISO, Lemonade, Inc.
Increased Access to Security Logs
"It was hard to get the logs and feed them into our security incident and event management (SIEM) service with the VPN," explained Jaffe. "By using Banyan's array of log management tools, we can stay ahead of potential problems, gain a clearer understanding of the internal goings-on in our systems, improve our security, speed up troubleshooting processes, and develop superior measures for dealing with issues. The VPN was a much lower quality service than what we have now with Banyan."

Faster Connectivity and Increased End User Satisfaction
"Connecting through the VPN was definitely slower than with Banyan," said Jaffe. "Banyan eliminated the latency with the VPN, so our end users are much happier now. In order to access services from the VPN, they had to complete six steps. Some were as easy as a simple click, but others involved a sequence of clicks, pull down menus, and configuring choices. With Banyan, they can connect with just one click from a browser. They just type in the URL, and that's it."
Using Device Trust Certificates
"The VPN technology we used made it more difficult to use device trust certificates, which is a very good added layer of security," noted Jaffe. "The VPN presented us with many challenges with that scenario, whereas Banyan works well with the trust certificates."
Great Support
"Banyan support has been excellent," said Jaffe. "The entire team has been fantastic. They recently helped us through several complex use cases. We wanted to make sure we could use Banyan with kubectl (the Kubernetes command-line tool) so our engineers could manage their Kubernetes containers. It was a little challenging, but with Banyan's help, it all worked great."

Future Plans
"We have already rolled Banyan out to our employees, and we plan to start rolling it out to partners and other organizations with whom we do business in the near future," said Jaffe. "We can provide these users access through Banyan, using very narrowly-defined, highlytailored privileges to certain systems."
Lemonade is also testing Banyan's new Service Tunnel offering. This offering provides the ability to create fast, modern, secure tunnels utilizing state-of-theart cryptography. Service Tunnels provide encrypted network connectivity to network segments, including VLANs, VPCs, and subnets. As with the other service types, security policies are continuously enforced, locking down access based on user and device attributes and trust levels. "The Service Tunnel use case really works well for us," noted Jaffe. "I'm excited about the potential of that solution for our organization."
Final Thoughts
When asked if he would recommend Banyan to other companies, Jaffe replied, "Yes, absolutely. I'm a huge fan of Banyan, and I have already recommended the solution to several of my peers. In my opinion, Banyan Security is delivering the best Zero Trust Access Solution in the market today."

About Banyan Security
Banyan Security provides secure, zero trust "work from anywhere" access to infrastructure and applications for employees, developers, and third parties without relying on network-centric legacy VPNs. Deep visibility provides actionable insight while continuous authorization with device trust scoring and least privilege access deliver the highest level of protection without sacrificing end user productivity. Banyan Security protects tens of thousands of employees across multiple industries, including finance, healthcare, manufacturing, and technology. To learn more, visit www.banyansecurity.io or follow us on Twitter at @BanyanSecurity.
Banyan Security, Inc. | +1 415-289-9414 | www.banyansecurity.io © 2021 Banyan Security, Inc. All rights reserved.
CaseStudyLemonade_20211129

