Maturing Cybersecurity Infrastructure
with Intelligence-Driven Operations
Equipping a Multinational Cloud Computing SaaS Provider with a Foundation that Scales

It's not hard to imagine the cybersecurity challenges of a global cloud computing network, providing applications and services to businesses who depend on accessing their data as well as maintaining visibility and control of their information. Cyber risk is an evolving landscape, and there is no shortage of regular attacks by malicious actors who steal or ransom data, or those who simply misuse or fail to maintain control of data and find themselves out of compliance with an industry requirement.
What is hard to imagine is a global security operations center that is primarily using manual methods to handle security alerts and triage. A recent Forbes1 article calls it a "dirty little secret" that two-thirds of tasks are not automated across IT functions, and especially so in a large enterprise organization. There are many

reasons why this is the case, from implementation challenges and costs, to complexities within the technology stack, or the silos that widen when using disparate tools and technologies across teams.
For one of the world's leading computer technology companies, they found themselves in exactly this situation - with teams spread out geographically, using a myriad of informal processes and tools, with no standardized method for collecting threat intelligence and operationalizing their actions. They needed a way to unify and manage their cybersecurity operations within a cohesive, scalable platform that could grow with them as the organization matured with its people, processes, and technology.

CUSTOMER'S PROFILE:

CUSTOMER SINCE:
2020

DEPLOYMENT TYPE:
On Premise

INDUSTRY:
Technology

TEAM:
Geographically Dispersed
Security Teams

Customer Challenge

ThreatConnect's Solution

Immature security stack with multiple silos

ThreatConnect removes silos around data and connects processes between SOC analysts, Incident Responders, and Cyber Threat Intelligence analysts by providing a common platform for them to execute daily tasks and manage their workflows together.
When the team is freed up from focusing on manual and mundane tasks, morale improves and existing technology investments are able to be leveraged more strategically, and productivity and effectiveness can scale to meet the business needs.

Primarily using manual methods to track Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)

ThreatConnect's Collective Analytics Layer or CALTM helps teams learn about the reputation of IOCs and apply classifiers to help facilitate faster decision making by prioritizing what matters most. CAL can help remove junk IOCs, determine credibility of IOCs, and identify which feeds to enable, equipping the team with the information needed to have a proactive defense.
ThreatConnect aggregates hundreds of OSINT and commercial sources of threat intelligence and allows teams to create their own prioritized threat landscape with internally derived threat intelligence as well. However, we don't stop there. Context on IOCs and known threat groups is critical.

Lack of context around OSINT feeds and understanding what is credible

With ThreatConnect's report cards, analysts can easily see any feed's performance to understand variables such as a feed's reliability rating and unique indicators, when it was first reported, and its scoring disposition. These insights are designed to help make better decisions during threat analysis and investigation.

A solution that allows information to be easily shared between a Threat Intelligence Team and a Security Operations Team
Manage and analyze the collected threat data to characterize and prioritize into actionable threat intelligence for threat hunting, incident response, or security defense tools.

10 OUT OF THE BOX SOLUTIONS
Creates a centralized repository of threat data to collect, contextualize and disseminate data to the security team and their tools. With ThreatConnect's SOAR, organizations can record, analyze, and interact with all of the information related to a case from one place. With this, teams can enrich cases leveraging internal and external threat intelligence and add learned intelligence back into the platform itself. This ultimately creates a feedback loop to ensure information is constantly being both gathered and applied for smarter decision making.
Free the team from mundane data collection tasks to focus on analysis and response. Leveraging the power of an integrated TIP & SOAR, this organization was able to harness the power of intelligence-driven operations to be more effective, resilient, and adaptive.
An intelligence driven approach provides intelligence on an adversary's capabilities, attack patterns, and informs how you build and configure your orchestration capabilities to defend your network better. Intelligence and orchestration together provide the situational awareness and context that is needed when trying to extract meaning from data and apply it within a changing environment.

ENHANCE INTELLIGENCE WITH GLOBAL CONTEXT
ThreatConnect's CALTM is an innovative architecture that distills billions of data points, offering immediate insights into the nature, prevalence, and relevance of a threat. CAL provides global context that leverages anonymously shared insights from ThreatConnect users, open-source intelligence, malware intelligence and more, providing global context that has never before been available.
MAKING THE LANDSCAPE MANAGEABLE
Even for the most skilled teams, keeping up with the threat landscape, complex IT environments, evolving regulatory environments and constant security alerts is not easy to achieve, much less quickly. This organization recognized their need to mature their security operations and chose their solution based on the concept of leveraging intelligence-driven operations. It was imperative that they have flexibility to control the right levels of automation and having the ability to automate entire actions or specific aspects of actions fit their unique needs. Leveraging ThreatConnect's Playbooks to automate and solidify their processes, and Case Management capabilities to memorialize and structure their workflows, they were able to reduce the time it takes to uncover relevant threat intelligence while working cases and mitigate the risks of spending significant time chasing false positives. Using customizable dashboards, they were able to visualize the data and monitor security operations and intelligence across teams, which enabled them to quantify their return on investment of automating and orchestrating their activities over time.
A PARTNERSHIP TOWARDS MATURITY
Reaching their strategic goals of maturing their security operations is not an overnight transformation. They were looking for a partner to come alongside them, helping them recognize and set critical benchmarks for their processes and programs as it grows and changes over time. ThreatConnect's Customer Success team is committed to helping to minimize risks and maximize the value that an integrated TIP and SOAR platform brings. The Customer Success team helped them as they defined their strategic and tactical objectives, and worked alongside them to configure and deploy their instance and required integrations. Ultimately, ThreatConnect laid the foundation for intelligence-based decision making and cross-team collaboration, equipping them with an infrastructure they can build upon for years to come.
1 https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2021/02/25/its-dirty-little-secret-manual-processes-are-still-prevalent/

About ThreatConnect®
Designed by analysts but built for the entire team (security operations, threat intelligence, incident response and security leadership), ThreatConnect's intelligence-driven security operations platform is the only solution available today with intelligence, automation, analytics, and workflows in a single platform. Centralize your intelligence, establish process consistency, scale operations, and measure your effectiveness in one place. To learn more about our threat intelligence platform (TIP) or security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) solutions, visit www.ThreatConnect.com.

3865 Wilson Blvd. | Suite 550 | Arlington, VA 22203 sales@threatconnect.com P: 1.800.965.2708

ThreatConnect.com
Copyright © 2021 ThreatConnect, Inc.

