CYBEREASON vs RANSOMWARE

Ransomware continues to be a major security concern for organizations. Adversaries have introduced a "double extortion" strategy where data is not just encrypted and held for ransom, but is exfiltrated first with the threat of being made public if the victim refuses to pay the ransom demand, effectively undermining data backups as an effective remediation tactic.
So how can organizations protect themselves from costly and disruptive ransomware attacks? Cybereason detects and blocks ransomware attacks with multi-layered prevention here's how:

ENDPOINT CONTROLS
Harden your endpoints against attacks by managing security policies, maintaining device controls, implementing personal firewalls and enforcing whole-disk encryption across a range of device types, both fixed and mobile.
NEXTGEN ANTIVIRUS
Powered by machine learning, this layer of protection recognizes the malicious components and blocks unknown ransomware variants prior to execution to defeat emerging threats.
BEHAVIORAL DOCUMENT PROTECTION
Detect and block ransomware hidden in the most common business document formats, including those that leverage malicious macros and other stealthy attack vectors.

INTELLIGENCE BASED ANTIVIRUS
Block known ransomware variants leveraging an ever-growing pool of threat intelligence based on previously detected attacks.
FILELESS RANSOMWARE PROTECTION
Disrupt attacks utilizing fileless and MBR-based ransomware that traditional antivirus tools miss.
ANTI-RANSOMWARE AND DECEPTION
A combination of behavioral detections and proprietary deception techniques surface the most complex ransomware threats and end the attack before any critical data can be encrypted.

Cybereason delivers the multi-layered prevention, detection and response required to defeat ransomware attacks that continue to evade traditional and nextgen security solutions. Talk to a Cybereason Defender and learn how to future-proof your organization against ransomware and other advanced threats.

LEARN MORE AT CYBEREASON.COM

