Preparing for a Cyber Incident
FBI Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3): Report individual instances of cybercrime to the IC3, which accepts complaints from both victim and third parties. https://www.ic3.gov
National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF): 24/7 CyWatch Command Center (855) 292-3937 or cywatch@fbi.gov

Although every organization strives to never suffer from a cyber attack, the increasing use of the internet and expanding digital landscape makes it more likely that every organization will one day fall victim to a data breach, ransomware, or other cyber incident.
Preparation, which includes developing an incident response plan, is key to an effective response that minimizes harm and expedites recovery. One way to accomplish that is to establish a point of contact with your local FBI field office:
https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-offices
Benefits of Working with the FBI:
 The FBI can respond with a range of investigative assets, all coordinated through the local FBI field office. These include Special Agents, Computer Scientists, and Intelligence Analysts in every field office who specialize in computer intrusion investigations. They also include enhanced resources like the Cyber Action Team, a rapid response team of cyber investigation experts who can deploy nearly anywhere in the world to provide advanced digital forensics and incident response capabilities to identify, collect, and analyze the most relevant and immediately actionable evidence of a computer intrusion.

 The FBI pursues investigations that can identify the source of the intrusion and provide context so you understand why you may have been targeted.

 The U.S. government can impose consequences for illicit acts, including indictment, prosecution, imposition of sanctions, and efforts to name and shame the responsible actors.
A relationship with the FBI can foster information sharing that proves beneficial both to potential victim
organizations and law enforcement.

Responding to a Cyber Incident
Realities of Working with the FBI:
 We treat victims as victims. The FBI's role is to identify the responsible cyber actors and bring them to justice, not to interfere with your organization's efforts to respond, remediate, and restore operations. Whenever practicable, protective orders are sought to reduce public disclosure of sensitive information, and exemptions are claimed to guard against any investigative or other sensitive information being released.
 The FBI strives to minimize disruptions to your business operations. The FBI pursues investigative measures that avoid computer downtime, often seeking only log files and images of affected machines. The FBI also does our best to schedule witness interviews in advance, and avoid displacing employees whenever possible.
 The FBI seeks only technical intrusion details, not sensitive internal communications evaluating your company's security. The FBI works closely with incident response firms as permitted by a victim to obtain relevant information for investigative purposes. If evidence is commingled with customer data, we partner with your technical personnel to locate artifacts of the intrusion while seeking to avoid sensitive third party data. There may be times when sensitive third-party data is intermingled with information or evidence regarding the intrusion.
 The FBI is law enforcement, not regulators. As a general rule, the FBI doesn't share cyber incident information with regulators, and refer regulators to the victim itself for further information. In fact, the Federal Trade Commission and Securities & Exchange Commission have stated publicly that they view reporting favorably.

