Accelerating the Sales Cycle Through Cyber Training at Palo Alto Networks

CASE STUDY

Palo Alto Networks (PANW) is an American multinational cybersecurity company, recognized for their innovative network security platform that protects over 65,000 enterprise customers and billions of users. CyberVista is a proud PANW training partner, providing employees with the critical knowledge and skills they need to be more effective in expanding the reach of PANW products and services.
The Challenge
Palo Alto Networks has over 7,500 employees globally. Of those employees, a large percentage is represented by System Engineers (SEs).
While other training courses provide a one-size-fits-all approach to training, CyberVista courses all start with a
diagnostic exam.
System Engineers are at the intersection of technical products experts and trusted advisors throughout the sales journey. They work with the sales teams to provide guidance and technical support in order to cultivate trust with prospects and clients. Ultimately, SEs need to understand the challenges of their prospective clients in order to connect and empathize with their struggles and articulate an effective solution.
Before utilizing CyberVista, the previous training solution left little room for flexibility, which was a necessity for PANW given their diverse and geographically-dispersed workforce of over 200 SEs that spans the US, Europe, Middle East, and APAC. The costs to send employees to

in-person training boot camps were astronomical, and only a handful could be sent at a time.
Moreover, due to the intricate nature of Palo Alto's systems, content needed to be relevant to SE responsibilities and the PANW framework. Meaning, they wanted a hybrid solution that would combine the training of both the vendor and Palo Alto curriculum. The previous solution was too rigid and leadership feared that SEs were not receiving effective, relevant information.
Palo Alto sought a comprehensive and fundamental training program to establish a base level of cybersecurity competency for the SE team that would bring credibility and authenticity into all sales processes, in addition to accessibility to accommodate their global workforce. Leadership was wary of expensive boot camp-style solutions, thus seeking a new, more cost-effective and efficient way to train their teams.
The Solution
The CyberVista and Palo Alto Networks leadership team first needed to establish a benchmark for performance targets. This was determined by delivering a diagnostic assessment based on the top performing SEs' relevant knowledge and skills. The remaining engineers were then assessed against the benchmark to calibrate a customized, live online, and hands-on training path for the collective:
1. Top Performer Analysis (TPA): By delivering a diagnostic assessment to SE top performers, CyberVista was able to create benchmark performance targets that informed PAN leadership of optimal content configuration and created goals for the entire SE group.
sales@cybervista.net | cybervista.net/advance

2. Group Diagnostic Assessment: Once a knowledge baseline was established, the same diagnostic assessment was delivered to the broader population of SEs. Results of the group diagnostics were formative, meaning that both the individual SEs who completed the assessment and the Palo Alto Network managers were able to see strength and weakness reporting by individual and by general category.
The Results
CyberVista deployed a multi-modality, hybrid solution of CyberVista and Palo Alto curriculum based on a proprietary content library featuring instructional and hands-on content, delivered in both live online and ondemand formats.
200 SEs spread throughout North America, Middle East, Europe, and APAC went through the program. To accommodate for time zone differences, CyberVista conducted live online training with a 9am ET and 9pm ET cohort, delivered in four groups in eight week intervals, at three hours at a time.
After the first year, Palo Alto Networks was able to successfully baseline all team members to a desired knowledge level. Over the course of eight weeks of live online instruction, the average score between the initial diagnostic exam versus the final completed at the end of the course, increased by 15.9 percent.
PANW SE employees found substantial benefits from CyberVista's program, enabling them to be more aware of the cybersecurity landscape and to better empathize and connect with their clients by knowing better their challenges.

About CyberVista
CyberVista is a cybersecurity workforce development company. Our mission is to build and strengthen organizations by providing cybersecurity professionals with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to drive growth and defense.
Founded in 2016, CyberVista benefits from the rich 84 year history of Kaplan--one of the world's premier training providers--as its sister company and ally. In 2018, CyberVista welcomed Transcender into the brand. Transcender brings over 25 years of helping organizations and practitioners build technical job skills across all areas of IT and cybersecurity.

"CyberVista has been an excellent education partner. In this case, the term 'partner' is meaningful and not an alternative for 'vendor.'"
Chris Bridge Palo Alto Networks

CyberVista, a Graham Holdings Company 1300 17th Street North, 17th Floor Arlington, VA 22209

Let's talk.
We look forward to the potential of working with you and your organization on your next initiative.
For further information please email info@cybervista.net or call 844-558-4782.

