DARK WEB MONITORING
Get back visibility over targeted attacks
HACKING IS A BUSINESS, THE DARK WEB IS ITS MARKETPLACE
A cyber attack happens every 39 seconds in the world.1 Cybercriminals are not a handful of hacktivists anymore, they're businessmen. Ready-to-use hacking tools are all over the place. It has never been easier to find them. But what about tracking them?

DATASHEET
KEY FEATURES
10M new Dark Web posts scanned each month.
600k new discussions monitored each month, incl. Whatsapp & Telegram private groups.
125k new threads monitored each month, incl. IRC and Discord channels.

KEEP YOUR FRIENDS CLOSE AND YOUR ENEMIES CLOSER
Gain visibility into hackers' hidden channels to protect your business from cyber threats.
Unmatched coverage Know what hackers talk about on the Deep Web, Dark Web and instant messaging applications.
On-demand investigations Understand the threats they bring to your business, access in-depth investigations to counter attacks.

KEY BENEFITS
6 Get access to hackers' communities instantly, save up to 6 months of infiltration.
0% False positives. No additional resources are required on your end.
49 Identify cyber threats 49 days before they get to your business.2

CybelAngel provides an excellent monitoring service of the Deep & Dark Web. They found threats very specific to our company. Their team is always available and quick to respond.
Head of Cybersecurity operations, Services Industry
1 University of Maryland, 2007 2 Statista, 2019

GET NOTIFIED WHEN

Malicious actors share or sell fraud schemes impacting your company.

Hackers target your business.

Cybercriminals share details on how to scam your customers.

Hackers share or sell confidential information or PII.

200+ languages covered.

1 Dedicated Cybersecurity analyst

<2h set up

ALWAYS ON POINT, ALWAYS RELEVANT Millions of potential threats, but only one relevant incident report to handle.

Risk assessment Understand the potential impact of the threats.
Detailed incident context Access precise information on the sources and the bad actors.
Sample of exposed data Focus on an extract of the most sensitive data to better assess the risk.

TAKE IT ONE STEP FURTHER WITH ON-DEMAND INVESTIGATIONS Rely on a team of cybersecurity experts to investigate threats, quantify risks, and protect your business.

Are you looking to identify a potential new threat?

Do you want to know more about an existing one?

Are you trying to understand the methods of a cybercriminal group?

Book Your Custom Demo Now CYBEL ANGEL .COM
Paris | New York | London

