ACCOUNT TAKEOVER PREVENTION

DATASHEET

CREDENTIAL STUFFING IS A CRITICAL THREAT TO YOUR BUSINESS
Stolen credentials are the primary vector for hackers to access your corporate IT environment and launch ransomware attacks. Today, 80%1 of hacking techniques leverage stolen or brute-forced credentials.
Strong passwords, frequent resets, and rules for thirdparty application authentication are the usual policies to face these threats. But how can you stop them without having the visibility on what has been exposed, and potentially compromised?
STAY ONE STEP AHEAD OF HACKERS
CybelAngel is the only digital risk protection solution that detects and manages leaked credentials preemptively, before they are compromised.
Database scanning Detect email addresses and passwords stored on unprotected databases. Scan instances of MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, MariaDB and ElasticSearch for exposed credentials.
Web crawling By monitoring the clear, deep & dark web in real time, identify newly compromised credentials being shared or sold, instantly.

KEY FEATURES
10B exposed email addresses & passwords in CybelAngel's data lake.
335k Deep & Dark web posts detected every day.
3,000 newly exposed databases scanned every day.
KEY BENEFITS
2 Free up 2 full time employees by relying on CybelAngel.2
$1.7M Avoid the costly consequences of account takeover: $1.7M on average.2 197 Know about exposed credentials 197 days before they are usually detected.3

CybelAngel gives us a significant time advantage. They are the only solution to report credentials leaks way before they end up for sale on the Dark Web. This has proven critical for our VIPs.
Chief Information Security Officer, Insurance
1 Verizon, Data Breach Investigations Report, 2020 2 Ponemon, The Cost of Credential Stuffing, 2017 3 Ponemon, Cost of a Data Breach Report, 2020

GET NOTIFIED WHEN

An unprotected internal database is exposing some of your employees' credentials.

A threat actor is sharing or selling your company's credentials on the dark web.

A breached third-party service leaks logins & passwords of your employees.

A VIP, C-level or Board member account has been exposed.

INTRODUCING CYBELANGEL'S CREDENTIALS WATCHLIST

Real-time feed of exposed credentials.

Contextualized credentials leaks.

Unique reports - 33% of our credentials' alerts come from unprotected databases.

Latest detection date Track usernames and passwords exposed numerous times.
Confidentiality Display or hide the passwords to your team.
Multiple views Pivot from contextualized leak reports to exposed credential details.

Turn your credentials management into a seamless process
You can't afford to manually alert every single one of your employees facing a credential leak. Integrate CybelAngel with your SOAR and SIEM and make sure you automate password changes.

Automate password resets. Connect CybelAngel with your orchestrator and reset passwords in a blink.

Educate your teams. Set up automated notifications to impacted employees and remind them of appropriate professional credentials' use.

Update your Active Directory immediately after receiving our alerts.

Book Your Custom Demo Now CYBEL ANGEL .COM
Paris | New York | London

