Network Defense as a Service
NETWORK SECURITY MADE SIMPLE

CyGlass Network Defense as a Service (NDaaS) delivers a cost effective network detection, response, and compliance solution for cyber security teams that have a distributed, hybrid network and do not have the resources to operate a SIEM or 24X7 security operations center.
Utilizing layered AI driven security policies, CyGlass NDaaS reduces the massive volume of network traffic into prioritized smart alerts, investigative views, and threat and compliance reports. Cyglass NDaaS enables any security team to See Risks Across Their Network, Stop Threats, and Prove Compliance.
See Risk Across Your Network
Network operations managers gain visibility to abnormal risky network activities including remote workers and hybrid cloud environments. Managers can quickly identify rogue devices, unprotected devices, threats to IoT devices and backup system failures without overburdening your IT team.
Stop Threats
CyGlass NDaaS enables automated continuous monitoring for threats across networks, cloud, and VPNs. Utilizing a unique combination of cyber TTP policies, threat intelligence and layered AI, CyGlass delivers a short, prioritized list of smart alerts and investigation reports covering network, AD, and cloud threat surfaces. Cyber security managers utilize NDaaS to surface and remediate cyber-attacks 24x7.

CYGLASS THREAT COVERAGE

 Ransomware  Command &
Control C2  Man-in-the-Middle  Unauthorized web
& DNS activities  Masqueraders
(tunneling)

 Credential compromise
 Rogue behaviors  Insider threats  Lateral movement  Data exfiltration

Prove Compliance
Prebuilt, automated compliance policies and reports are activated with the push of a button using CyGlass Goals and Objectives. Prove compliance through prebuilt reporting including control effectiveness, SLA tracking, and compliance objective metrics.
Compliance policies include multiple aggregated rules, AI models, control objectives and assurance reports for NIST, Cyber Essentials, FFIEC, NIAC, CMMC, and more.
Built for Small IT Security Teams
CyGlass' unique NDaaS delivery model provides enterprise class cyber security at a fraction of the cost of traditional NDR tools. CyGlass is designed for operational success in any environment delivering:
No IT overhead: 100% SaaS solution with no appliance, no agents, no new on-premises software or hardware, and utilizing existing firewalls, VPNs, AD, and SaaS applications.
Increasing ROI: Policy by objective with advanced AI and automation reduce overhead, increase effectiveness and use case coverage over time. NDaaS replaces legacy network traffic analyzers and NDR, marginal SIEM deployments, and DLP tools
Low TCO: Objective policy packs and advanced AI drive automation, reduce overhead, reduce manpower requirements while increasing operational effectiveness and threat detection and response from devices anywhere, anytime.

1 (978) 665-0280

www.cyglass.com

info@cyglass.com

CyGlass NDaaS Delivery Architecture
CyGlass collects NetFlow, Syslog, and other log data via a data collector layer which ingests data, parses it into relevant formats, and transmits it to the AI engine via a secure SSH channel.
The CyGlass AI engine utilizes unsupervised machine learning in a big data architecture with integrated policy engine.
The policy engine enables the fast deployment of operational, threat, and compliance objectives and controls which drive the relevant analytics.
Outputs include data flows to security tools, smart alerts, reporting, and an investigative UI.

Fortinet Sophos Cisco Palo Alto SonicWall WatchGuard Check Point

Cloud Firewall Office Firewall

NetFlow SYSLOG (DHCP, VPN)
NetFlow SYSLOG (DHCP, VPN)

Network Routers, Switches

CyGlass VM

Azure Active Directory

NetFlow DHCP Machines

Saas Applications Events

CyGlass UI > Investigate > Tune > Manage
Integrations > SIEM > MDR > SOAR > XDR > NAC > PDNS
Remediation > Firewall > User/DNS
Smart Alerts > Threats > Risks
Reports > Compliance > Threat & Risk > Goals & Objectives

Focus on what is important with Layered AI
Very Few Prioritized Smart Alerts A very small number of alerts that capture behavioral and event intelligence Hundreds of Anomalous Behaviors Scans (Lateral Movement), Rogue activities C2, Suspicious Tunneling, Exfiltration
Thousands of Anomalous Events Asset Discovery, Connection rate, volume, source, target, port etc. anomalies
Millions of Network Conversations Real-Time Netflow, Real-Time or offline PCAP

1 (978) 665-0280

In depth visibility, automated reports
CyGlass objective driven alerts and reports enable security teams to focus on what is important, why, and what remediation action is needed to mitigate the risk or threat. Prebuilt policy objectives mean teams click a button to activate controls, AI models and reports based on organizational needs. Policies cover threats like ransomware defense, risks like rogue device identification, or regulations/ frameworks like HIPAA or NIST. Security teams save both time and money with these easy to activate prebuilt policies.

www.cyglass.com

info@cyglass.com

