Comprehensive cybersecurity has never been easier

The current security approach is broken.
Organizations are currently forced to use an expensive, complex, multi-product security stack with painstaking manual processes that result in resource-drained and exhausted IT security teams. Worse, this disjointed, resource-heavy approach still leaves them blind and exposed to stealthy attacks.
Bring sanity back to cybersecurity with a fresh approach that makes protecting your organization easy and stress-free.
Cybersecurity made easy.
Cynet's end-to-end, natively automated XDR platform was purpose-built for lean IT security teams. Instant to deploy, radically simple to use, backed by a complimentary 24/7 MDR service and provided at the most effective TCO, Cynet enables any organization to achieve comprehensive and efficient protection, regardless of its resources, team size or skills.
With complete visibility into endpoints, users, networks, SaaS and cloud applications, along with extensive automated response capabilities, Cynet's vision is to enable security teams to put their cybersecurity on autopilot and focus their limited resources on managing security rather than operating it.

Key Benefits
Gain end-to-end protection
with a natively unified platform for detection, prevention, correlation, investigation and response across endpoints, users, networks, SaaS and cloud applications.
Leverage native response automation
that reduces manual work to a minimum, freeing your time to manage security rather than operating it.
Achieve complete visibility
for accurate and thorough threat protection across your environment.
Maximize ROI
with the most effective TCO and by reducing resource requirements.
Get 24/7 piece of mind
while Cynet's proactive MDR team continuously monitors your environment, providing expert assistance and guidance.

THPAIRRDTY SAAPAPSL/ICCALTOIOUDN USER

NETWORK ENDPOINT

Visit www.cynet.com

Stop breaches. Stop working late.
With the unified cybersecurity platform built for lean IT security teams

ProtectorTM
Prevention, Detection, IT & Security Operations
Prevents and detects threats using the combined capabilities of NGAV, EDR, NDR, UBA, Deception and more.

ResponderTM
Automated Investigation and Response
Automates all required investigation and response actions across the environment.

ENDPOINT PROTECTION: Unmatched protection against advanced endpoint threats, including NGAV, device control, critical resource protection and more.
EXTENDED THREAT DETECTION: Expanded visibility across endpoints, networks and users provides layered protection capabilities of EDR, Deception, User Behavior Analytics rules, Network detection rules, sandboxing and threat intelligence out of the box.
CSPM & SSPM: Monitor and correct SaaS and Cloud application configuration errors to eliminate security risks.
IT & SECURITY OPERATIONS: Extensive operational functions natively included, such as IT Hygiene, Vulnerability Management and asset inventory capabilities.

AUTOMATED INVESTIGATION: Cynet automatically launches an investigation upon detecting high risk threats to instantly uncover the root cause and full scope of the attack.
AUTOMATED REMEDIATION: Cynet provides the widest array of automated remediation actions to instantly contain and remediate detected threats across endpoints, networks, users and SaaS applications.
REMEDIATION PLAYBOOKS: Leverage pre-built or customized playbooks that combine multiple remediation actions to eradicate all traces of identified threats.

CorrelatorTM
Log Management and Event Correlation
Collects and correlates alert and activity data into actionable incidents, providing essential SIEM capabilities.
CENTRALIZED LOG MANAGEMENT: Collects and integrates critical log data needed for threat analysis using a powerful query language along with intuitive graphics and dashboards.
EVENT CORRELATION: Analyzes signals from native Cynet controls, system logs and other sources to correlate data into actionable incidents.
FORENSICS: Investigate threats and conduct threat hunting with instant access to forensic artifacts collected from Cynet agents, logs and other system resources using powerful search and visualization tools.

CyOpsTM 24/7 MDR
Continuous Monitoring and Response
A world-class managed detection and response team making sure you are safe and secured.
24/7 MONITORING: Ensures dangerous threats are identified and properly addressed around the clock ­ ideal for resource-constrained teams.
INCIDENT RESPONSE: Assistance in remote Incident Response with investigation, comprehensive remediation plan and guidance.
THREAT HUNTING: Proactively searches for hidden threats acros the environment.
ATTACK REPORTS: Written overview and detailed technical insights on attack techniques.
Visit www.cynet.com

