The one thing you need to know about Cynet's Partner Programs is:
We make cybersecurity sales and support easy
Cynet Solution Provider Partner Program
Cynet is 100% channel focused. Our success is your success. We provide our partners with industry leading technology, robust enablement programs and a frictionless experience that drive superior outcomes for our mutual customers. We built every factor of our partner
program to drive mutual profitability while keeping your customers secure.

Why is Cynet Right for Your Customers?

Single Consolidated Security Platform
Cynet offers an easily managed XDR solution that protects Users, Files, Hosts, & Networks from one console with built-in automated remediation. Cynet technology is sold on a single inclusive SKU, creating a packaged security solution that solves business problems.

24/7 Proactive MDR Services
included complimentary out-of-the-box to either be your SOC or to augment your existing customer support infrastructure.
Purpose-built for Mid-Market
while being scalable to hundreds of thousands of endpoints.

Why Should You Partner with Cynet?
We are dedicated and committed to becoming your best partner and growing together

Robust Profitability Programs
built to protect your margins while offering highly favourable pricing to your customers.

Higher Margins
Cynet partner pricing structure enables you to have higher than industry average margin protection from day one.

www.cynet.com

Cynet SP Partner Program

1

Additional Tiered Benefits of Partnership Include

Profitability
Rebates Individual Partner Rep/Tech Rewards Program Profitability Programs:
Deal Registration Teaming Plans Incumbency Advantage

Marketing
Access to MDF Marketing Support Quarterly Marketing Planning Demand Generation Kits Lead Sharing Program* Listing on cynet.com

Enablement
Access to Partner Portal Sales, Technical & Marketing Support e-Learnings Technical Trainings NFR access Annual Business Plans CyOps IR and 24/7 Support Partner Advisory Council Executive Sponsorship Program

New Partners can Benefit from Our Onboarding Fast Pass Program
The framework has been designed to help new Cynet Soultion Provider partners plan, learn and execute Cynet sales processes and customer implementation strategies quickly and reach your target markets
effectively from the very start.

First 30 Days
Review program levels Sign agreement
Access to Partner Portal
Get to know the Cynet team Get to understand technology Cynet to understand
partner's GTM motions Develop joint business plan
Set/schedule cadence calls

30-60 Days
Launch partnership externally with Press Release and Cynet listing
on partner.com
Mutual sales intros & sales trainings
Begin account mapping with Sales
Host 2 joint-customer POVs
Register first deals
Plan first demand generation activities

60-90 Days
Run first marketing activity Close first deals
Schedule first QBR

CONTINUE TO BUILD PROFITABILITY AND PARTNERSHIP

*not available in EMEA due to GDPR

www.cynet.com

Cynet SP Partner Program

2

Partner Levels

Registered Partner
Partners who have stated their desire to provide their customers with Cynet's product portfolio. Members at this entry level have access to baseline profitability programs, plus full access to the Cynet's Partner Portal for a range of online resources to help drive mutual customer demand.

Growth Partner
Partners at this level have confirmed their commitment to working with Cynet to meet customer's ongoing security needs and have established a track record of cybersecurity expertise to become strategic with Cynet either regionally or nationally.

Preferred Partners
The highest partner level, achieved through a demonstrated commitment to customer satisfaction, Cynet competencies, and revenue growth. These partners have a proven record of managing the most complex security deployments ­ and they receive the highest level of program benefits.

Partner Trainings & Certifications
Cynet's training and enablement program is designed to give you the knowledge bank and practical skills to deliver what your customers need to secure their business.
Cynet Sales Certification (CCSE)
Partner sales representatives can earn certifications through this eLearning track designed to help sales teams present and demonstrate the solution capabilities of the Cynet portfolio. Partner sales will earn CCSE certifications after successfully passing the certification exam located on the Partner Portal.
Cynet Technical Certification (CCTE)
Partner technical representatives can earn certifications through this eLearning track designed to help technical teams present and demonstrate the solution capabilities of the Cynet portfolio through an interactive deep dive demo. Partner technical representatives will earn CCTE certifications after successfully passing the certification exam located on the Partner Portal.
Cynet Security Technical Certification (CSTA)
Partner technical representatives can learn about Cynet's security capabilities, technical functionalities and an introduction to Cynet's CyOps MDR service. Partner technical representatives will earn CCTE certifications after successfully passing the certification exam located on the Partner Portal.

www.cynet.com

Cynet SP Partner Program

3

ABOUT US
Cynet's end-to-end, natively automated XDR platform, backed by a 24/7 MDR service was purpose-built to enable lean IT security teams to achieve comprehensive and effective protection regardless of their resources, team size or skills. Cynet delivers the prevention and detection capabilities of EPP, EDR, NDR, Deception, UBA rules and CSPM, together with alert and activity correlation and extensive response automation capabilities.
THPAIRRDTY SAAPAPSL/ICCALTOIOUDN
USER
NETWORK ENDPOINT

Our vision is to enable security teams to put their cybersecurity on autopilot and focus their limited resources on managing security rather than operating it.
Bring sanity back to cybersecurity with a fresh approach that makes protecting your organization easy and stress-less.

www.cynet.com

Cynet SP Partner Program

4

