DATASHEET

An Any-to-Any Vendor Agnostic Orchestration platform for connecting & automating Cyber, IT, and DevOps workflows across Cloud, On-Premise, and Hybrid environments
The ever-increasing complexity and variety of cybersecurity tools has resulted in analysts needing to spend a lot of their time analyzing and responding to security events which mostly are repetitive in nature. This has led to analysts getting burnout and organizations giving delayed threat responses. To counter this and improve the pace of threat response, organizations are adopting Cyware's powerful security orchestration platform as a means to integrate, orchestrate and automate their security operations spanning across a wide variety of security tools from heterogeneous vendors deployed across di erent environments.
Cyware Orchestrate allows security teams to create customized automation playbooks to execute various manual, repetitive tasks in a reliable machine-driven manner. Cyware Orchestrate enables machine-to-machine (M2M), human-to-machine (H2M), and machine-to-human (M2H) security orchestration through integrations with a wide range of deployed security tools and technologies.
Cyware Orchestrate helps organizations streamline and automate their security operations by enabling disparate tools and technologies from di erent vendors to talk to each other without having to rely on any manual e ort for data normalization, enrichment, and analysis. By deploying Cyware Orchestrate, organizations can significantly reduce mean time to respond (MTTR) and increase operational e ciency along with overall return on investment (ROI) in cybersecurity.

Capabilities and Benefits
Seamless Security Orchestration
Cross-environment orchestration Vendor agnostic orchestration Decoupled architecture to work with any IT/ITSM tool Seamless integration with threat response and case management solutions On-demand and scheduled orchestration
Process Automation and Standardization
Automated standard security processes Consistent repeatable results Fine-tuned logical workflows High service availability
Save Time and Increase E ciency
Increased e ciency through custom playbooks Reduced analyst burnout by automating manual tasks KPI tracking through dashboards Respond faster and with increased accuracy
Cost e ective Orchestration as a Service
Ideal scalable decoupled orchestration solution for MSSPs, consultants, service providers. Cut down the TCO and increase the bottom line for customers by cloud adoption Ability of managed service providers to provide next gen SOC to their customers Showcase futuristic threat visibility for customers
Playbook Use Case Examples
Automated phishing analysis & response Malware detection and containment automation Automated SOC event handling Automated SIEM incident case management

CSywAaPrDe aOtarcshheesettrate Datasheet

1

Cyware Orchestrate Architecture

OTA Style Marketplace
For Apps and Playbooks

GUI Based Playbook Normalization
Action Scheduling Data Aggregation Syslog Integration
Drag and Drop

M2M
Automated Actions

250+ Apps

M2M
Threat Intel Management

Cyware Situational Awareness Platform
Cyware Threat Intelligence eXchange

150+ Playbook Library

Data Enrichment Open API Support Custom Script Support Holdable Playbook
Webhooks Nested Playbooks

M2M
Incident Management

Cyware Fusion & Threat Response

Mobile App for approval

Cloud Cyware Orchestrate Agent On-Premise Cyware Orchestrate Agent Hybrid Cyware Orchestrate Agent
GUI Based Playbook
Granular RBAC

Personalized Automation Playbooks
Leverage manual as well as fully-automated playbooks to dynamically meet process and procedure-specific demands.
Gain access to hundreds of easily click-and-drag, customizable, out-of-the-box playbooks with multiple integrations and custom embedded code.
Create nested playbooks with dynamic logic to Publish Threat Intel
address a wide variety of use cases.

Out-of-the-Box and Customizable Integrations
Integrate and automate your workflows in and beyond the security domain using 250+ apps through Cyware's integrations appstore.
Build custom apps by creating apps from scratch or by cloning apps downloaded from our appstore and edit them based on your business use-cases.

Cross Environment Orchestration
Create seamless automation interoperability between cloud and on-premise deployed technologies without exposing private networks or altering on-premise infrastructure setup with Cyware Orchestrate Agent.
Accelerate security workflows by extending the machine-speed orchestration and automation capabilities to on-premise infrastructure.
Gain greater control over assets, reduce infrastructure costs, enhance cloud security, resiliency, and flexibility to exchange data between third-party applications.

Cyware Orchestrate Datasheet

2

The Complete Security, IT and DevOps Automation Platform

OUT OF THE BOX PLAYBOOKS Jumpstart automation and orchestration e orts by utilizing our extensive library of pre-built playbooks and customize them to your specific workflows.
250+ PRE-BUILT APPS Integrate with our extensive library of pre-built apps and customize them to your specific needs.
FLEXIBLE INTEGRATIONS Utilize Cyware's capability to support Webhooks, Apps, and Cyware Orchestrate's OpenAPI to quickly build interoperable integrations with custom or third-party tools, cloud-deployed resources, or on-premises technologies.
CYWARE ORCHESTRATE AGENT Leverage a lightweight integrator (less than 20MB) that automates process workflows between the cloud applications and on-premise deployed security solutions.
POWERFUL CUSTOMIZATION Harness the power of a secure development environment built upon and supporting Python 3, to manipulate and normalize data by easily and e ciently creating custom functions directly in the visual playbook editor.
AUDIT PLAYBOOK EXECUTIONS Quickly review detailed runtime information to assist in playbook debugging and enhancements.
DEDICATED MOBILE APP Use our mobile app to approve workflow decisions and monitor the performance from anywhere.

NESTED PLAYBOOKS Deploy a nested playbook methodology to create e cient subtask workflows and dynamic logic to address a plethora of use cases.
APPLICATION EXTENSIBILITY Install applications built by third-parties to create technology integrations or create your own connectors and actions directly in the platform.
SCHEDULE PLAYBOOKS Make use of playbook scheduling features and take control of playbook actioning by utilizing cron expression.
VISUAL EDITOR Quickly and easily create powerful automation capabilities by developing logical workflows from the user-friendly visual playbook editor.
MULTI-INSTANCE SUPPORT Utilize our platform's integration flexibility by creating multiple instances of each connector to address di erent use cases.
EXPORT AND IMPORT LOGIC Maintain version control and harness the ability to move playbooks between instances by importing and exporting playbooks directly in the interface or automate the process by leveraging our API.
DATA SYNCHRONIZATION Seamlessly orchestrate the voluminous data flow between disparate tools and technologies used by IT, ITSM, DevOps, and SecOps teams.

Deployment Environments
We provide multiple deployment options for our products, giving our customers the flexibility to utilize all our product features by choosing the model that best suits their business needs.

Public and Private Cloud

On-Premise

Hybrid

Cyware's Extended Support
Take advantage of Cyware's extended commitment to build personalized playbooks and integrations based on your organization's workflows

About Cyware
Cyware helps cybersecurity teams build virtual cyber fusion centers enabling end-to-end threat intelligence automation, sharing, and unprecedented threat response. Cyware is transforming security operations by delivering the industry's only Virtual Cyber Fusion Center Platform with next-generation SOAR (security orchestration, automation, and response) and threat intelligence (TIP) solutions for large and small enterprise security teams, ISACs/ISAOs, MSSPs, and government agencies - so that organizations can reduce costs and analyst burnout, and increase speed and e ciency.

228 Park Ave S, #77147, New York New York - 10003-1502 cyware.com | sales@cyware.com | 855-MY-CYWARE

