THE SOC 
 ANALYST'S 
 GUIDE TO 
 SOAR

WHITEPAPER

#1: PHISHING

Many of the common problems in the average SOC--alert overwhelm, data and tool silos, the skills gap--are felt Hmoospteafcuulltye,lythbeyrethwosilel coonmthee afroynetalrinwehs.eTnhpeihr itsihtleinsgmiisgnhtodt iafftetrhaecrtoosps coofmpanies and industries, but we'll call etthevecehmrnyoSllOiosgtCiocaafnlsaaelyncsdutsrs.ittrTyuhcuetssueeramcl aiesssneusae,nsbdoufwtloe2mg0ae2cn2y aSisrOenCroestscptahonanstciabyuelesaefro.thrEedvmeaync-toaons-dstaayntSefrcuOstprastiaonnd.
incident response, so the cybersecurity tools and the hackers they protect against both become more sophisticated, the most effective way to breach an organization iRsescteilnltoefrtinegn stehcruoruitgyhwsoorkcfilaolwesnagroinuenedrisnegcu. r
ity orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is one of the best things a company can do to make their SOC analysts more effective and less bogged down in meaningless tasks. 
 While a SOAR tool can't stop an employee from clicking on a malicious link, it can automate and expedite the process of detecting, aWnea'vlyezibnrgo,keanndsoemliemoinf athteinwgapyhs itshhaitnSgOcAaRmmpakigens sthtehalitvetas rogfeStOyCouarnalysts easier into three broad categories:
 organization. 1. Alert handling

2. Higher-tier activities

3. Workspace improvements


1. Alert Handling
 With automated enrichment and triage, SOAR completely changes SOC analysts' relationship to their alert queue.


ALERT OVERWHELM

The average analyst, particularly one in a junior role, spends most of their time facing a never-ending flood of uncontextualized security alerts from several different sources. Because there are so many undifferentiated alerts, analysts are unable to investigate many of them--44% according to one study by Cisco--and the ones that do get scrutinized often turn out to be false positives or low-risk incidents. Analysts spend so much time on the repetitive tasks of alert triage, such as copying and pasting hashes into threat intelligence platforms, that they have no time to properly investigate incidents or address the root causes of the alerts.

Perhaps the most immediate benefit seen by security teams that implement SOAR is that these rote tasks are easily automated away, keeping analysts focused on real threats and important tasks.


"Before SOAR, our analysts spent 10
minutes on each basic alert, so closing 40 alerts took over six-and-a-half hours...
 but with SOAR, we've got it down to a minute, meaning we can handle 10 times more alerts than before."

Manager of Security Operations, 
 Global FinTech Company

AUTOMATED TRIAGE

So, how does SOAR solve the problem of alert overwhelm? Through automated triage. First, SOAR integrates with all of your alert sources, so alerts can be aggregated into a single, manageable queue. 
 SOAR enriches alerts with threat intelligence from integrated sources, correlations with past incident data, 
 and--depending on the platform--other data like MITRE ATT&CK TTPs. IOCs like URLs, IPs, and hashes are checked against threat intelligence databases, and suspicious attachments can be detonated in an integrated sandbox.

The result is a risk-scored and prioritized queue, where only genuine threats require human attention. False positives can be auto-closed and simple responses can be quickly orchestrated, greatly reducing the time analysts spend on alert handling.


2. Higher-Tier Activities

 Because SOAR automates the bulk of Tier-1 tasks, it frees up time for all analysts to do higher-tier work. SOAR supports analysts in these tasks as well. In fact, even if you're a junior analyst, SOAR's playbooks and orchestration make it possible for you to contribute well beyond your experience level.


INCIDENT RESPONSE

SOAR enables fast, conclusive, and repeatable incident response, through libraries of playbooks that can be easily adapted or built from scratch to fit your exact needs. SOAR playbooks give you proven processes for handling common incident types. 

SOAR's orchestration capabilities mean that incident response playbooks don't have to be carried out manually by analysts. Actions can be automated across tools, including ongoing tasks like IOC surveillance. Analysts can then drive the workflow with their expertise and make decisions at key points, without getting bogged down in the minutiae. 

THREAT HUNTING

Threat hunting might not be within scope for most analysts, but SOAR makes it much more accessible. This is particularly important in small security teams, where team members have to cover a wider range of activities.


BETTER MORALE AND LESS
TURNOVER

No security analyst began their career excited to copy-and-paste all day, but in so many SOCs, that's how analysts spend much of their time: copying hashes and other IOCs into threat intelligence platforms and then manually recording the results. SOAR eliminates the repetitive tasks that drive SOC analysts crazy and empowers them to work on more meaningful tasks. The result is happier analysts and less employee turnover.


SOAR streamlines the threat hunting process with automation. For example, a security team might have a playbook that collects a global list of IOCs they come across in incidents. That list can then be automatically searched during investigations to identify known threats.

Adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) can also be used to trigger threat hunting. For example, if an incoming event is identified as Credential Dumping, the playbook that is triggered could include a SIEM query to find all other credential dumping events and a search across the entire environment for related TTPs, based on the probable other steps in an attack that involves credential dumping.


3. Workspace Improvements

Screen-switching and looking for information across multiple interfaces is a huge timewaster. SOAR brings all your important security data together to create a simplified on-screen workspace.


INVESTIGATION INTERFACE

SOAR tools can consolidate related events and contextual data on screens that encompass the entire picture of an attack. Instead of switching between events, analysts can work on the entire incident seamlessly, and add in new events and IOCs as the investigation grows.

Case management and collaboration features make it possible for multiple analysts to work together on investigations. SOAR tools offer ways for analysts to leave notes on incident timelines, send messages to collaborators, and assign tasks to colleagues. 

DASHBOARDS

In addition to the advantages of a well-organized alert queue, SOAR tools make analysts' day-to-day work much easier with customizable dashboards that organize their most important data. Incident, task, and TTP-based dashboards give analysts an at-a-glance view of what's happening in their environment, with the ability to dig deeper when necessary.


D3 XGEN SOAR CUSTOMER
STORY

When it needed to overhaul and streamline its security, risk management, and compliance processes, this global bank put D3 SOAR at the center. What used to be 15 separate interfaces became one single operations hub that broke down data silos and enabled seamless cross-departmental collaboration. D3 now supports 500 users across seven teams with customized, rolebased access to the data and functions they need, without compromising information security or compliance.


D3 Security has been at the forefront of security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) since before the term was even invented. In this time, we've helped the largest companies in the world and early adopters from virtually every industry transform their security operations, incident
response, and threat hunting.

This depth of experience has allowed to D3 to build the most comprehensive and scalable SOAR platform on the planet. It has also given our team members unmatched SOAR-specific expertise, which allows us to provide you--the person evaluating or buying SOAR--the best help possible.

We would love to discuss your automation strategy and show you how our product can help you achieve your goals.
WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT D3?
JOIN THE NEXT XGEN SOAR DEMO

Read how a FinTech 
 client increased their 
 response speed 10X

DOWNLOAD
Get the conversation started:
Email info@d3security.com
 Follow @D3Security on Twitter


Read our 
 NextGen SOAR
Product Guide DOWNLOAD
Connect with D3 Security on LinkedIn Visit us online at D3Security.com


