DARK WEB INTELLIGENCE & MONITORING

DarkIQTM

Illuminate threats and prevent attacks
Relevant, actionable dark web intelligence - break through the noise and focus on the data that matters to your business
Proactively protect infrastructure, people and digital assets across your organisation with DarkIQTM. Manage today's ever evolving threat landscape with a threat intelligence platform built to provide actionable intelligence, using clear, deep and dark web data sources for enhanced cyber defence.
DarkIQTM scans and analyses previously unobtainable, vast and complex data streams, allowing you to go further, faster and deeper into the dark web to protect your business.

USE CASES

Threat Intelligence
Identify threats to your business and curate them into tangible, risk-based actions. Easily manage your threat exposure and make key decisions from an intuitive, easy to use interface.
Cyber Due Diligence
Maintain GDPR and other compliance standards by protecting your company assets, confidential data and account credentials with DarkIQTM.
Threat Monitoring
Conduct daily dark web scans to automatically detect, categorise and alert you to any identified threats.

Threat Investigation
Get the bigger picture and the finer details necessary to investigate threats, define your threat posture, manage your resources and proactively protect your most vital assets.
API Threat Feed
Leverage extensive dark web data and capabilities through the seamless and versatile integration of our API with your existing security platform.
Reconnaissance
Proactively investigate threats to your organisation - prevent breaches before they happen.
www.slcyber.io

FEATURES & CAPABILITIES
Actionable // Using automated analysis, DarkIQTM assesses your dark web footprint and provides prioritised actions to manage your exposure.
Automatic Discovery // Automatically identifies your company domains, networks and other relevant assets that you need to monitor.
Dark Web Traffic // Monitor dark web traffic to and from your network - identify both external and insider threats to your organisation.
Alerting // Automated email alerts for urgent actions. DarkIQTM de-duplicates data to ensure you're never alerted twice about the same information.
Open Ports // DarkIQTM monitors your networks for open ports and classifies them according to risk.
Common Vulnerabilities // Common Vulnerabilities across IP addresses and ports are picked up in daily DarkIQTM scans.
MSSPs // Multi-tenancy for easy management and MSSP friendly pricing.
Explore the Dark Web // Safely examine granular apects of your dark web footprint and traffic, across onions, pages, markets, forums and pastebins.

Leaked and Reused Credentials // Monitors leaked credentials from our database of 8 billion+ records, covering not just leaks from your organisation but also password reuse by employees on other sites.
Dark Web Monitoring // DarkIQTM proactively monitors all corners of the dark web for discussions about your organisation, networks, IP address and employees.
APIs & Exporting // REST APIs allow you to integrate DarkIQTM into your SIEM or security tooling. APIs export data in standard JSON and CSV format for easy manipulation.
Phishing Prevention // Identify potential phishing sites targeting your customers and employees. DarkIQTM provides screenshots for validation and enables abuse reporting to Domain and Network Registrars.
Implementation // Nothing to download, or update and no installation or maintenance costs.
Support // A selection of support services are available, including 24/7 technical support, team training and systems/API integration.

Searchlight Security: Protecting society from the threats of the dark web
Searchlight Security is mission-proven as the world's leading provider of dark web intelligence and tools, protecting society from the threats of the dark web. Trusted by the world's most advanced government agencies and businesses; enabling them to go further, faster and deeper into the dark web.

www.slcyber.io enquires@slcyber.io
UK Headquarters Suite 63, Pure Offices, 1 Port Way, Port Solent, Portsmouth PO6 4TY +44 (0)345 862 2925
USA Headquarters 900 16th Street NW, Suite 450, Washington, DC 20006 +1 (202) 684 7516

www.slcyber.io

