Ransomware Investigation
Detect and Recover from Ransomware

RANSOMWARE ATTACKS HAPPEN Ransomware attacks are becoming more common-- and more expensive. It is not easy to play perfect perimeter defense against ransomware. In the face of this challenge, organizations are looking to adopt a holistic, multi-level ransomware response strategy that integrates detection, analysis, and rapid recovery.

Global ransomware damages predicted to reach
$265 billion

Every

2 seconds

in 2031

a ransomware attack on businesses predicted in 2031

Source: Cybersecurity Ventures

The most effective strategy for preventing and recovering from a ransomware attack is defense in depth. A defense in depth approach keeps your backups safe from ransomware, identifies when you are under attack, and accelerates recovery to minimize business impact in the event of an attack.

RANSOMWARE INVESTIGATION: RECOVER FASTER. STAY SMARTER. Ransomware Investigation helps you increase your resiliency against ransomware by making it faster and easier to recover from an attack. Ransomware Investigation helps you recover faster by providing a simple, intuitive user interface that tracks how your data changed over time. It replaces manual recoveries with just a few clicks for minimal business disruption. It also increases intelligence by using machine learning to actively monitor and generate alerts for suspicious activity.

Ransomware Investigation
EDGE
APIs

RECOVER FASTER Minimize downtime. Restore to most recent clean state with just a few clicks.
INCREASE INTELLIGENCE Leverage machine learning to detect and alert on anomalous behavior.
See how your data has changed to quickly identify what was impacted where.

DATA SHEET|RANSOMWARE INVESTIGATION

A MULTI-LEVEL DEFENSE: HOW RANSOMWARE INVESTIGATION WORKS
DETECT ANOMALIES VIA MACHINE LEARNING Ransomware Investigation applies machine learning algorithms against application metadata to establish a normal baseline behavior for each machine. It proactively monitors the system by looking at behavioral patterns and flagging any activity that varies significantly from the baseline. Ransomware Investigation analyzes several file properties, including file change rates, abnormal system sizes, and entropy changes. Once an anomaly is detected, Ransomware Investigation alerts you to the unusual behavior via the Rubrik UI, by email, or by SOAR and SIEM applications like Palo Alto Networks Cortex XSOAR. By using machine learning, Ransomware Investigation can continuously refine its anomaly detection model over time and stay ahead of the most advanced threats.
ANALYZE THREAT IMPACT WITH DATA INTELLIGENCE Ransomware Investigation continuously scans the entire environment to provide insights on how your data has changed over time. In the event of an attack, you can now quickly identify which applications and files were impacted and where they are located through simple, intuitive visualizations. Using the UI, browse through the entire folder hierarchy and drilldown to investigate what was added, deleted, or modified at the file-level. With Ransomware Investigation, you minimize the time spent discovering what happened and the data loss with granular visibility into the latest unaffected files.
ACCELERATE RECOVERY TO MINIMIZE BUSINESS DISRUPTION Ransomware Investigation's simple user experience is powered by the Rubrik global management interface. After completing the analysis, you can simply select all impacted applications and files, specify the desired location, and restore to the most recent clean versions with just a few clicks. Rubrik automates the rest of the restore process, and users can track the progress through the UI. Since Rubrik captures all data in an immutable format, ransomware cannot access and encrypt or delete backups.

WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SAYING
"When we were hit by ransomware a few years ago, we leveraged Rubrik's fast recovery and APIs to recover in under an hour with zero data loss. Today, ransomware is much more sophisticated than it was a few years ago. With Ransomware Investigation, we could leverage its data intelligence to alert us on suspicious behavior and better understand what was impacted at a granular level."­Paul LaValleyFormer CIO, Yuba County, California
"Backups are one of the most, if not the most, important defenses against ransomware. Rubrik's file system was built to be immutable, meaning backups cannot be encrypted or deleted by ransomware. I am very fortunate to say that 100% of what we had on Rubrik we were able to recover."­Matthew DayCIO, Langs Building Supplies
"Ransomware Investigation will help us protect our bottom line and potentially save us millions of euros in case of an attack. If we did not have Ransomware Investigation, we would not have been approved for a cyber insurance contract."­Fabrice De BiasioCIO, ASL Airlines

Global HQ 3495 Deer Creek Road Palo Alto, CA 94304 United States

1-844-4RUBRIK inquiries@rubrik.com www.rubrik.com

Rubrik, the Zero Trust Data Security CompanyTM, delivers data security and operational resilience for enterprises. Rubrik's big idea is to provide data security and data protection on a single platform, including: Zero Trust Data Protection, ransomware investigation, incident containment, sensitive data discovery, and orchestrated application recovery. This means data is ready at all times so you can recover the data you need, and avoid paying a ransom. Because when you secure your data, you secure your applications, and you secure your business. For more information please visit www.rubrik.com and follow @rubrikInc on Twitter and Rubrik,Inc. on LinkedIn. Rubrik is a registered trademark of Rubrik, Inc. Other marks may be trademarks of their respective owners.
20211129_v2

DATA SHEET|RANSOMWARE INVESTIGATION

