DATALOCKER
DL4 FE ENCRYPTED DRIVE
FIPS 140-2 Level 3 Certified Encrypted Drives With Powerful Remote Management

SECURE TO THE CORE
The DL4 FE is a FIPS 140-2 Level 3 (Cert. #3972) Certified device built around a powerful AES 256bit cryptographic hardware architecture that then adds layer after layer of security with automated policies that intelligently change its security posture based on its location, how it's being used, and the type of data being stored on it. The DL4 FE is a TAA compliant device that meets the strictest security requirements while offering large-capacity (up to 15.3 TB) and an easyto-use touchscreen for setup and use. A powerful addition to the DataLocker line of securely managed solutions, the DL4 FE continues our proud tradition of providing Simply SecureTM solutions, plus it's backed by a limited 3-year warranty.

Powerful Encryption Right Out Of The Box
Everything you need to encrypt data is built into the FIPS 140-2 Level 3 and Common Criteria certified* DL4 FE. No drivers. No setup. Just iron-clad, hardwarebased AES 256-bit encryption in an easy-to-use interface, which is further guarded by an army of automated security policies.

Never Risk Losing Your Data
Remote management policies with SafeConsole® lets admins remotely lock, erase or render devices unusable with remote device detonate, destroying all data in cases of attempted theft. SilentKillTM further gives users a special code to destroy the device's encrypted data in case of emergencies.

Ensure User Adoption With Easy-to-Use Touchscreen
A color touchscreen gives end-users quick access to secure data and allows them to customize their device. On-screen instructions make setup fast and easy. Randomized keypad layout with letters, numbers and special characters prevents surface analysis of fingerprints or prevents threat actors from guessing a repeated input pattern.

Remotely Manage & Audit Your Entire Fleet
All DL4 FE drives are remotely manageable with SafeConsole, giving admins the ability to remotely lock or wipe drives, reset passwords, view last-used locations, and see what data has been added, removed, or changed on the drive. Set device or group-specific policies for all the drives in your fleet.

*DL4 FE isin process to achieve Common Criteria cPP certification. The official listing as a Product under Evaluation by NIAP is expected in 2021.

datalocker.com | sales@datalocker.com

THE DL4 FE

FIPS 140-2 LEVEL 3 CERTIFICATION True device level 3 certification with a Common Criteria EAL5+ certified controller inside. Provides always-on hardware-based encryption. Dedicated AES 256-bit XTS mode crypto engine meets rigorous cryptographic standards and is more secure than softwarebased alternatives. Hardened internals and enclosure for increased physical security.

SILENTKILLTM Allow users under duress to destroy the device or the stored data without leaving traces by entering a special code (admin configurable).
FULLY MANAGEABLE DEVICE Use DataLocker SafeConsole to manage individual and groups of devices using automated policies.

ADMIN POLICIES & USER DATA RECOVERY Admins can set rigorous password policies (nonsequential, non-repeating special characters, minimum characters). Should users forget a password, admins can unlock the DL4 FE using the admin password. Admins can also recover the user's data by logging in with the admin password. The user will be forced to reset their password upon their next use.

BRUTE FORCE PASSWORD PROTECTION When in use, admins can configure how many failed password attempts are needed before the device destroys its payload.
NOTHING TO INSTALL All encryption, administration, and authentication performed on the DL4 FE unit. This means devices in standalone mode don't require a software agent; they work right out of the box.

THE DL4 FE MANAGED FEATURES

REMOTE DEVICE DETONATION Lets admins functionally destroy the device and its data remotely to protect against data or encryption key theft (Admin configurable. Requires SafeConsole).

ON BOARD ANTI-MALWARE Automatically scans files and quarantines/destroys bad apps/files based on policy settings (optional upgrade. Requires SafeConsole).

DATA GEOFENCING SafeConsole uses geofencing, trusted networks, and ZoneBuilder to ensure a device changes its security posture based on its location (Admin configurable. Requires SafeConsole).

COMPREHENSIVE AUDIT CAPABILITIES Have a complete record of file activity (including name changes on the device), password attempts, device locations and machines, device health, and policies in force (Admin configurable. Requires SafeConsole).

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

CAPACITIES SSD: 1 TB, 2 TB, 4 TB, 7.6 TB, 15.3 TB
HDD: 500 GB, 1 TB, 2 TB
DIMENSIONS L: 12.3 cm W: 7.7 cm H: 2.1 cm
L: 4.8'' W: 3'' H: .82''
WEIGHT .65/lbs / 294 grams and up
PHYSICAL SECURITY Kensington Security SlotTM
Hardened internals and enclosure

CRYPTOGRAPHIC PROCESS FIPS 140-2 Level 3 Device Certified (#3972). Common Criteria cPP certification pending.
AES 256-bit XTS hardware encryption onboard.
Integrates a Common Criteria EAL 5+ certified secure microprocessor.
INTERFACE USB-C on the device, compatible with USB 3.2, USB 2.0 (8 TB drives and under)
(USB-C to USB-A and USB-C to USB-C cables included)

TRANSFER SPEEDS USB-C 3.2: 150 MB/s read, 100 MB/s write
USB 2.0: 40 Mb/s Read, 20 MB/s Write
STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION FIPS 140-2 Level 3 TAA Compliance IP64 Certified RoHS Compliant FCC CE
MANAGEMENT COMPATIBILITY Microsoft Windows

OS COMPATIBILITY Microsoft Windows, macOS®, Linux® or any machine that supports a USB mass storage device.
PART NUMBERS DL4-500GB-FE DL4-1TB-FE DL4-2TB-FE DL4-SSD-1TB-FE DL4-SSD-2TB-FE DL4-SSD-4TB-FE DL4-SSD-7.6TB-FE DL4-SSD-15.3TB-FE

DEVICE LANGUAGES English, French, German, Spanish
WARRANTY 3-year limited warranty
TRUSTED BY

datalocker.com | sales@datalocker.com

THE COMPLETE DATALOCKER SOLUTION
The full DataLocker solution empowers workforces with secure mobile USB storage while giving admins the ability to monitor, audit, and manage devices remotely. From transport of sensitive data to updating remote machines, securing medical records, and more, DataLocker Solutions are a powerful way to fortify your most sensitive data.

SafeConsole - Remotely manage and audit secure drives
SafeConsole offers a cloudbased or on-prem dashboard where admins can manage and audit secure drives, manage virtual drives, and lock down USB ports from anywhere. If you're an admin looking for a way to secure hundreds of remote drives, SafeConsole is a superb option.
 Manage encrypted USBs, hard drives, and virtual drives
 Set policy rules like file-type restrictions and geographic boundaries
 Configure ultra-secure password policies
 Set admin and user roles remotely
 Audit drives to see which files were added, removed, or changed

DataLocker Secure Drives - Encrypt data on a mobile drive and make sure nobody but the right people can access it.
Whether it's a small, highlyportable encrypted flash drive like the Sentry K300 or an ultra-secure, fast, and high-capacity drive like the DL4 FE, DataLocker secure drives offer powerful AES 256-bit encryption in an easyto-use device. Everything a user needs to encrypt data is built right into a standalone data locker drive, and with SafeConsole, it's easy to remotely manage a whole fleet of DataLocker devices.
 Up to FIPS 140-2 Level 3 certification with AES 256-bit encryption
 Self-destruct after failed login attempts to prevent brute-force attacks
 Built-in McAfee antivirus scans added files (optional)
 Rapid crypto erase deletes all device data instantly
 Fully manageable via SafeConsole (select models)

PortBlocker - Ensure that users only use approved USB devices to prevent malware intrusion.
PortBlocker is a feature of SafeConsole that gives admins total endpoint port control to prevent data loss or intrusion. It allows them to whitelist only certain devices or fully lock down USB ports altogether, preventing users from introducing viruses by way of unsecured USB devices.
 Whitelist USB storage devices by Vendor ID, Product ID, or serial number
 Apply policies to groups of workstations or individual workstations
 Set USB ports to read-only mode to disable write capabilities on storage devices
 Automatically block devices when a workstation is used outside of a geolocation policy
 View all policy edits or changes in the SafeConsole audit logs

SafeCrypt - Encrypt any data stored on a workstation to lock up any sensitive data
SafeCrypt is a feature of SafeConsole that offers powerful encryption technology for data on desktops, laptops, and in the cloud. It allows users to create a secure virtual drive on their workstations. This folder works just like any other folder, but will encrypt any data added to it. This allows users to encrypt local files, network drives, external drives, and even single-user cloud storage.
 FIPS 140-2 certified  Powerful AES 256-bit
encryption  Encrypt data on a local
machine, store data anywhere  Encrypted file names,
read-only mode, file-type restrictions, and brute-force attack defense

datalocker.com | sales@datalocker.com

