DATASHEET
Autonomous Threat Sweeper
Automate Threat Advisories and Post-hoc Detection for Cyber Rapid Response
Provide Air-Cover for Your SOC
Security teams are under tremendous pressure to keep pace with the velocity of new and emerging threats. As cyberattacks continue to grow in breadth and scale, organizations need autonomous solutions that can assess the exposure to emerging threats on an ongoing basis. Leveraging the latest research and threat content from Securonix Threat Labs, Autonomous Threat Sweeper (ATS) codifies many of the manual aspects of investigation. Our solution acts as an air-cover for your security team by automating the process of assessing your exposure and initiating incident response.
Execute Queries

Discover

Curate

Sweep

Response

Threat Research

Intel Curation

Threat Sweep

Initial Response

ATS helps you detect unknown threats present in your environment with curated threat intelligence, and automated detection engineering and investigation.

The Benefits of ATS
Stay Ahead of Emerging and Developing Threats
Empower your team to prioritize high-risk threats with continuously curated threat intelligence. ATS acts like an extension to your SOC with retroactive searches across large volumes of logs and historical time frames.
Quickly Know Your Exposure
Quickly know your exposure to emerging threats with attack-centric IOC and TTP-based detection. ATS enhances your SIEM with the ability to detect low and slow threats through post-hoc detection of both IOCs and TTPs, extracted and codified by Securonix Threat Labs.
Accelerate Cyber Rapid Response
Accelerate cyber rapid response with automated reporting, alerting, and incident creation. By continuously monitoring your environment and curating intelligence on emerging threats, ATS helps security teams drive down their mean time to respond (MTTR) and prioritize critical threats.

1

Autonomous Threat Sweeper | Datasheet

Unlock SOC Efficiency with Autonomous Threat Sweeper
ATS' robust feature set enables security teams to offload many day-to-day investigation tasks so they can focus on the threats that matter most.

First Threat Activity

Vulnerability Disclosed Mass Exploitation Detection

Past
Post hoc Detection

9 DAYS

4 DAYS IOC TTP

FUTURPEresent

Requires Fresh Attack Activity

1 DAY

Curated Threat Advisories
Know when threats are present with up-to-date threat content and reports.
Threat Intelligence: Get up-to-date threat content curated by the experts on our Threat Labs team.
Threat Awareness Reports: Get notified immediately as emerging, critical threats appear in your environment.

Threat Awareness Report

Threat Detection Report

Threat Digest Report

Multi-Vector Detection Mode Leverage multiple detection methodologies to discover both "knownknown" indicators of compromise and "known-unknown" indicators of action derived from TTPs. IOC Detection Mode: Extracts Indicators of Compromise from threat intelligence to hunt for emerging threats hidden in your long-term, historical data. TTP Detection Mode: Analyzes the Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures, helping threat hunters identify Indicators of Action in the absence of prior knowledge about IOC's.
TTP
TTP IoC
Advanced Reporting and Alerting ATS alerts your security team and provides comprehensive reporting, automated incident creation, and actionable guidance for remediation. Automation: ATS speeds up detection and response by executing searches and queries to automatically sweep your environment for signs of compromise in current and historical data. Actionable Guidance: Get detailed findings and remediation guidance if IOCs and TTPs are detected in your environment.

2

Autonomous Threat Sweeper | Datasheet | 0222

For more information about the Securonix ATS, schedule a demo at: www.securonix.com/request-a-demo

