DATASHEET
GlobalSign Partner Program: Service Providers

CASE STUDY

Building more secure digital experiences ­ together
When you partner with GlobalSign, you are getting more than just another technology add-on. As one of the internet's original digital certificate authorities, we've expanded our solutions portfolio to address the complete range of identity and security needs facing today's fastest growing ­ and fastest moving ­ businesses.
Our public key infrastructure (PKI) management solutions and unique innovations around automation make it easy for today's leading Everything-as-a-Service (XaaS) providers to deliver the experiences their customers want, where and how they want them.
By 2027, global spending on cyber security will reach $10 billion (CPO Magazine)
Today's enterprises understand security can no longer be an after-thought. In response, many have taken an "encryption by default" approach. Yet IT systems continue to grow in scope and complexity, and companies cannot afford to continue to allow security policies and authentication methods to get in the way of their employees' existing workflows and processes.
Leaders are desperate for comprehensive solutions that will help remove security threats, streamline IT services, and work with existing systems.
With GlobalSign, large enterprises, as well as SMBs and start-ups, are able to simply and efficiently protect their data and secure their websites and email communications. Our robust portfolio of products work in the cloud and can easily integrate into a wide variety of platforms and applications, making it a clear choice for XaaS providers looking for cost-effective and time-efficient security solutions for their end-users.
We understand the challenges facing business and technology leaders in the current digital landscape and we'll bring that knowledge and experience into each and every collaborative partnership.
Let's work together to help today's enterprises stay ahead of cybersecurity threats and clear the path for innovation ­ while driving revenue in an exciting new market.

BENEFITS
 A NAME YOU CAN TRUST Boost your brand profile by aligning with GlobalSign, a respected pioneer in the identity and security industry
 SOLUTIONS THAT SCALE Add value to customers with identity and encryption solutions optimized for large-scale, enterprise deployments
 POWERFUL API'S Integrate any of GlobalSign's products or services with your application or service for a seamless end-user experience
 COMPLIANCE-READINESS Help customers fulfill international regulatory requirements such as eIDAS, CCPA, and GDPR with Qualified Trust Service Providerbacked services
 ONGOING SUPPORT Receive training, support, and ongoing communication from a dedicated success manager
 MARKETING ASSISTANCE Improve visibliity through our co-marketing programs

GlobalSign Partner Program: Service Providers

DADTAATSAHSEHEETET

GlobalSign Product & Service Offerings - Solutions Designed to Scale

GlobalSign's extensive range of encryption, authentication, and signing services are designed for today's agile enterprise. Our cloud-based certificate and PKI solutions will seamlessly integrate with any platform or application.

 Email Security-as-a-Service Let GlobalSign do the work for you. We provide a backend which can supply S/MIME certificates in large quantities as they're needed - making it easy for XaaS providers to add functionality, like email encryption and machine and user authentication to their existing platforms.

 Digital Signing-as-a-Service Our highly scalable, cloud-based digital signing solution replaces wet ink signatures, creates a tamper-evident seal to protect intellectual property, and works with existing documentsigning workflow applications including AdobeSign.

 SSL/TLS-as-a-Service We provide tailored solutions which offer highly scalable and flexible certificate issuance. Certificate configuration, issuance and revocation can be completely triggered via our API.

Recognized as a Qualified Trust Service Provider (QTSP) and AATL member, GlobalSign is able to provide certificates for advanced and qualified signatures and seals under eIDAS.

SSL-as-a-Service can be integrated to your service offering and autoamted to not interrupt

Partner Resources & Support
We pride ourselves on our support, with a globally-distributed, multilingual tier 1-3 customer support and vetting team, a Sales Engineering organization for integration projects, and SaaS service descriptions and Service Level Agreements as needed.
We also offer access to marketing resources including product information, use cases, and lead generation campaigns, as well as co-branded webinars, videos, eBooks, and more.
We consider our partners extended members of our own team and the success of you and your customers is our mission.

See why over 1,000 customers and partners across the globe, including top Fortune 100 companies, choose GlobalSign for their Identity and Certificate Lifecycle
Solutions. Contact us today to schedule a demo or speak with an account manager.

About GlobalSign
GlobalSign is the leading provider of trusted identity and security solutions enabling businesses, large enterprises, cloud service providers and IoT innovators around the world to secure online communications, manage millions of verified digital identities and automate authentication and encryption. Its high-scale Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and identity solutions support the billions of services, devices, people and things comprising the Internet of Everything (IoE).

US: +1 877 775 4562 UK: +44 1622 766766 EU: +32 16 89 19 00

sales@globalsign.com www.globalsign.com
© Copyright 2020 GlobalSign

