INTRODUCING MORPHISEC GUARD LITE
Don't Compromise Your Security: Gain Full Visibility and Control Over Microsoft Defender Antivirus Using Morphisec Guard Lite - Free!

Microsoft Defender Antivirus provides effective antivirus and detection and response solutions for known attacks, but lacks enterprise-wide management capability and control over all endpoints from a single location. This is a major barrier for organizations that want to leverage Defender AV as the core of their endpoint defense strategy. Centralized management and monitoring is crucial as organizations seek to secure their missioncritical infrastructure. So what's an organization that wants to use Microsoft Defender AV given its lack of centralized visibility and control? Enter Morphisec Guard Lite.

KEY BENEFITS
TAKE MICROSOFT DEFENDER AV TO THE NEXT LEVEL, FOR FREE WITH MORPHISEC GUARD LITE:
 Harden your security infrastructure

Introducing Morphisec Guard Lite

 Save time and resources

Now Morphisec has released a free product to address these challenges. You can immediately switch to Microsoft Defender Antivirus with Morphisec Guard Lite to gain full visibility and control of your environment - all for free.
Morphisec Guard Lite powers Microsoft Defender AV to protect you from the viruses, Trojans, and malware looming over your head and gives you the visibility and control over your environment that you need to be sure nothing goes awry.

 Protect your peace of mind

Leverage Microsoft Defender AV's real-time scanning engine across your entire company while simultaneously implementing Morphisec Guard Lite - leading-edge technology providing visibility, control and policy management - so you can immediately harden your defenses and better manage security without incurring significant spend.

Microsoft Defender AV is a key component of a next generation security stack, however, in a business setting, its complete lack of enterprise-wide management capability and control over all endpoints from a single location is a major challenge.

 This lack of automation requires manual and time-consuming configuration and management

 Risk can be easily introduced as changes made to Windows security settings and controls are not "tamper proof" and are undetectable to security administrators

 Your organization is at risk if any critical settings such as disk encryption, personal firewall, web filtering and vulnerability detection are changed or dismantled within Microsoft Defender.

Now, you can harden your security infrastructure and save time and resources through centralized management of Microsoft Defender AV with the no cost, Morphisec Guard Lite.
Securing your company's critical systems requires a complete and comprehensive strategy. The good news is that an enterprisegrade, defense in depth strategy is available now, and you don't need to pay for it with Microsoft Defender Antivirus and Morphisec Guard Lite.

INTRODUCING MORPHISEC GUARD LITE

Morphisec Guard Lite Capabilities

Endpoint control

Benefit

Small footprint Auditability Real-time security posture management Infrastructure Hardening Policy management

Description
With Microsoft Defender AV, security settings can be inadvertently changed by users, creating vulnerabilities unbeknownst to you, the administrator. Prevent this by setting your own security baseline and locking down settings.
A small agent that installs within minutes and has no measurable impact on performance or business applications.
Determine which endpoints are secured with Microsoft Defender Antivirus and get audit reports for your company for attestation to show that the proper controls are in place.
Morphisec Guard Lite provides a single point for viewing your organization's security posture related to endpoint protection. Do more with less and gain control without leaving your home office or desk.
Quickly determine where security vulnerabilities exist and tighten security controls and visibility to immediately reduce risk. Policy management
Ensure that your company-defined security compliance policies and standards are successfully implemented. For example, automatically ensure that firewall and disk encryption are enabled for every endpoint and not disabled.

CONTROL YOUR MICROSOFT DEFENDER AV DEFENSES - SEE FOR YOURSELF What are you waiting for? It is time to get control. Download and try Morphisec Guard Lite for Free today and gain control within minutes

About Morphisec
Morphisec is breach prevention made easy. We are the world leader in providing advanced security solutions for enterprises around the globe. We simplify security and automatically block modern attacks from the endpoint to the cloud. Unlike traditional security solutions focusing on known attacks and relying on human intervention, our solutions deliver operationally simple, proactive prevention of the most advanced and unknown threats. We protect businesses around the globe, helping them optimize their security resources to stop the most dangerous and sophisticated cyber attacks. Morphisec protects over 8 million endpoints worldwide from ransomware, zero-day attacks and other evasive threats, include Motorola, Maersk, Citizens Medical Center, Yaskawa and many more.

 2021 Morphisec Inc.

www.morphisec.com

