DATA SHEET

Automated Vulnerability Remediation for IoT

INTRODUCTION
IoT Sprawl Creates A Growing Cyber Security Problem
IoT devices are proliferating faster than enterprise security teams can manage, creating a growing attack gateway to critical enterprise systems.
Many enterprise IoT devices still have default passwords in use. Outdated legacy protocols and older operating systems open up IoT devices to older attack techniques. The potential impact on company valuation, brand reputation, and legal liability is catastrophic.

FEATURES
Introducing Phosphorus

Designed to address the biggest IoT security threats: out-of-date firmware/ software and credential management.

With Phosphorus' agentless software, enterprises can:

Automatically detect, assess and remediate vulnerabilities to prevent IoT devices from being used to launch network attacks

Reduce costs to manage patches and credentials on enterprise IoT devices by as much as 90%

Phosphorus also works seamlessly with existing security infrastructure. PreBuilt integrations with the leading enterprise PAM, Service Management, SIEM/SOAR, and Vulnerability Management solutions provide comprehensive visibility and remediation across the enterprise.

Only 16% of enterprise security managers say they have adequate visibility to the IoT devices in their environments.
93% of enterprises are planning to increase their spending on security for IoT and unmanaged devices.
84% of security professionals believe IoT devices are more vulnerable than computers due to poor patching and credential rotation.
Zero-Trust becomes attainable by securing your IoT devices with Phosphorus

BENEFITS
Detect and fix the security threats in your enterprise IoT footprint
For enterprises proactive with IoT security, Phosphorus offers significant economic, operational, and technological advantages:
Economic

Over 90% less cost to manage patches and credentials on IoT devices:

WITHOUT PHOSPHORUS
Manual
One hr. per device per yr. x $150 per Est. 30,000 devices x $150
$4.5M per year

WITH PHOSPHORUS
Automated
$15 per device per yr. Est. 30,000 devices x $15
$450K per year

DATA SHEET

Operational

Easy low-friction deployments with minimal integration Complete lifecycle inventory management and security maintenance for embedded IoT devices
Technical

No Integration of sensitive data Downloadable, container-based images for remote install No network TAP or SPAN required

Automated agentless device discovery, enrollment, and security patching that can scale quickly to address growing enterprise IoT footprints A U.S.-based team with a proven track record of cybersecurity software innovation and enterprise scaleability

Simplistic integration with common security infrastructure for comprehensive IoT visibility and remediation including:
PAM- CyberArk, HashiCorp, Azure, Amazon Secrets, and Thycotic Service Management- ServiceNow SIEM/SOAR- Demisto, FireEye, and Splunk Vulnerability Management - Armis, ForeScout, Qualys, Rapid7, Rumble, Tanium, Tenable, and VMware AirWatch

Protect your enterprise IoT footprint

phosphorus.io contact@phosphorus.io

