DATA SHEET

scoutTHREATTM
COLL ABOR ATIVE THREAT AC TOR MODELING
scoutTHREAT provides your organization with a collaborative environment to track and model threat actors, capabilities, and motivations, empowering your analysts to efficiently identify and develop mitigations and responses to the threats most relevant to your organization. With threat modeling visualization and risk scoring tools, your security team can consistently process, prioritize, and rapidly operationalize incoming intelligence.
ANTICIPATE YOUR ADVERSARIES' NEXT MOVE
scoutTHREAT models cybersecurity threats so your organization can predict an adversary's next move and plan an appropriate defense. Advanced threat modeling allows your security team to build a correlation between atomic indicators, potential threats to the organization, and the motivation behind the threat.
PRIORITIZE THREATS
scoutTHREAT allows you to identify and prioritize the specific gaps in your organization's defenses by understanding which of your vulnerabilities are most likely to be exploited, how, and by whom. scoutTHREAT's built-in risk scoring enables analysts to assign a risk score to contextualized threats, assigning a level of risk based on a threat's ability, likelihood, and intent to harm the organization. Illuminate the most critical threats by overlaying your organization's security controls and vulnerabilities on top of scoutTHREAT's risk scoring matrix. Through understanding actor tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) coupled with your organization's security posture, you can prioritize security mechanisms and mitigations to reduce risk across your organization.
STREAMLINE WORKFLOWS
Streamline analyst work with custom workbenches, threat intelligence investigation, centralized RFI management and repository, and a RESTful API. scoutTHREAT allows you to quickly research, automate, prioritize and coordinate response to threats. By leveraging a risk management process to develop a prioritized list of threats, analysts can build the bridge between cyber and business risk.
scoutTHREAT serves the threat team by allowing threat prioritization based on the risk scoring and gap analysis

2021 LookingGlass Cyber Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.

1

scoutTHREATTM

FEATURES
Automated Threat Indicator and Entity Extraction

BENEFITS
 Automate the ingestion of structured and unstructured data sources and the extraction of indicators relevant to your organization. This enables more rapid data processing, and relevancy correlation to derive more actionable insights, freeing up your analysts from sorting through troves of data to hone in on the most relevant threat intelligence.

Automated Processing of Threat Intelligence and Customized Alerting

 Enable faster response with automated processing of new intelligence based on thematic criteria and information most relevant to your organization and customized tipping and queueing to your analysts to prioritize items for investigation, mitigation, or threat hunting.

Robust, Customized Threat Modeling
Flexible, Collaborative Analyst Workbenches

 Anticipate your adversaries' next move by highlighting the correlation between atomic indicators, structured, and unstructured threat intelligence. Quickly identify actors and their TTPs to understand if they are targeting your sector or technologies. Map low-level indicators to highlevel objects to understand attack motives and patterns.
 "Level up" your junior analysts' skills with scoutTHREAT's collaborative, customized analyst workbenches that will efficiently guide them through identifying threat actors and actor capabilities. This enables your analysts to be more productive by applying consistency and streamlined approaches to assess your organization's risk in relation to actor attacks.

Prioritized Risk Factors, Based on Your Organization's Security Posture

 Apply intelligence outputs of adversarial risk to your organization's security controls to highlight key risks, gaps in your security posture, prioritize mitigations and cyber investments, and communicate effectively with decision-makers on potential impact to business objectives.

Configurable Threat Framework

 Select your framework, such as MITRE ATT&CKTM, Lockheed Martin Cyber Kill Chain, or NIST Cybersecurity Framework to assign risk scores and model threat actors and threat intel using cyber frameworks specific to your organization. You can also apply industry Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) procedures to ensure protection of sensitive/proprietary information.

Flexible API

 Leverage the efficiency of your analysts and scoutTHREAT's RESTful API to create your own custom rulesets or integrate other data feeds via the API and STIX data formatting for quick integration of data ingestion or dissemination of information across your teams and technologies.

ABOUT LOOKINGGLASS CYBER SOLUTIONS

LookingGlass develops cybersecurity solutions that empower organizations to meet their missions with tailored, actionable threat intelligence. For more than a decade, the most advanced organizations in the world have trusted LookingGlass to help them protect financial systems, ensure telecommunications are cyberresilient, and safeguard national security interests.
Rooted in operationalizing threat intelligence, LookingGlass solutions help reduce the time to detect and respond to incidents,

enable cyber investigations, optimize threat hunt operations, and improve analyst productivity and efficiency. By linking the risks and vulnerabilities from an organization's external attack surface to customized threat actor models, LookingGlass provides a more accurate view of cyber risk and enables systematic definition and deployment of mitigations to defend against the threats that matter.
Learn more at http://www.LookingGlassCyber.com

2021 LookingGlass Cyber Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.

2

