DATASHEET
Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response
Streamline Investigation and Response with Embedded SIEM + SOAR
Why Securonix?
Rapid response is essential to mitigate the risks of cybersecurity threats. However, many security teams leverage poorly integrated SIEM and SOAR solutions, adding unnecessary complexity and delays to threat detection and response.
Securonix SOAR helps SOCs accelerate incident response by bringing all the details from their IT environments into a single pane of glass. By simplifying investigations with a converged view for detection and response, we help security teams drive efficiency and reduce complexity for a faster MTTR.

NG-SIEM & OPEN XDR

User Entity Attribution Machine Learning Threats Chains

Platform-wide Incident Management
Direct Content Integration
Single UI
MULTI-TENANT SUPPORT

SOAR
Automated Playbooks Integrations Case and Incident Management

The Benefits of SOAR

Accelerate Incident Response
Securonix helps your team work smarter, not harder. Our integrated SOAR offering simplifies the analyst experience and streamlines the end-to-end incident response cycle with a seamless workflow for threat detection, investigation, and response.

Respond to Threats at Scale
Securonix SOAR was built in the SIEM, not bolted on, so you have zero infrastructure to manage, and unlimited scalability. Our unified platform consolidates data sharing and delivers threat detection and response in a cloud-native architecture that evolves with you as you grow.

Maximize Security Operations Investment
In combination with Securonix SIEM or Open XDR, our SOAR offers unified detection and response reporting to help you identify and address constraints in your security operations process. SOAR also offers simple add-on licensing in line with our SIEM, with no hidden costs or additional variables.

1

Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response | Datasheet

Experience a Built-In, Not Bolted on, Embedded SOAR
In synergy with Securonix Next-Gen SIEM and Open XDR, Securonix SOAR creates the industry's first true end-to-end cybersecurity operations fabric for threat detection, response, automation, and orchestration across endpoints, networks, and the cloud.

Traditional "Bolt-on" SOAR

Securonix Built-in SOAR

Security Tools Infrastructure

Apps

Security Tools Infrastructure

Apps

Seamless Playbook Management
OOTB and Custom Playbook Actions: Leverage pre-built playbooks that cover the most common use cases out-of-the-box, or create your own with our flexible, user-friendly Playbook Designer.
Cloud-Native SOAR: Built with a pure, SaaS architecture, security teams can easily incorporate response playbook actions into the SIEM policies without having to switch screens or tools.
Integrations: Scale playbook actions with the orchestration of best-in-breed tools like EPP, EDR, next-gen firewalls, and more.

SIEM Alerts Search

SOAR Workflow Playbooks

Context Switching

Alerts

SIEM+SOAR Search Workflow Playbooks

Unified Interface

Simplified Licensing and Operations
Flat Pricing: Securonix is simplifying licensing by providing a flat pricing model that allows for unlimited analyst usage at no extra costs.
Content as a Service: SOAR customers gain free access to consistently updated threat content through a one-click opt-in process. This enables new integration and playbook content to be updated regularly to meet the demands of evolving SIEM and XDR detection content.

Multi-Tenant Response for MSSPs
Securonix supports response actions in a multi-tenant environment, enabling your analysts to take actions across multiple tenants from a centralized console. This capability is beneficial for managed service providers using Securonix to support multiple diverse customers.

2

Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response | Datasheet | 0122

For more information about the Securonix SOAR, schedule a demo at: www.securonix.com/request-a-demo

