Privileged Access Management for Your Cloud Infrastructure
Protect Windows and Linux workloads from identity-based attacks

CLOUD SUITE

The cloud delivers significant benefits such as rapid time to market, global reach, and elastic scaling. Organizations of all sizes are modernizing by migrating applications and data to the cloud. However, an explosion of local identities and access keys for admins, machines, apps, and services increases the vectors of attack and administrator overhead. Modern privileged access management (PAM), purpose-built for the cloud, lowers risk and cost and improves productivity and compliance. With Cloud Suite, organizations can globally govern privileged access through centrally managed policies dynamically enforced on the server -- across elastic Windows and Linux workloads.

Manage Privileged Access  Industry-leading PAM unifies policies
for human and non-human identities, across all multi-cloud hosted workloads.
Secure access from anywhere  Remote access without VPN
to workloads within firewalled environments.

Automate workloads  Designed to accommodate ephemeral
workloads that come and go based on elastic auto-scaling.
Implement Zero Trust best practices  Privilege elevation policies at the OS level align with best practices of least privilege and zero standing privileges.

Authenticate identities from multiple directories
 User authentication streamlines access to servers from any identity provider, cloud directory, or federation partner, including Active Directory, LDAP, and more.
Enforce MFA
 Identity assurance available at all access control decision points via extensive set of built-in MFA and 3rdparty authenticators.

Automate secure access for applications
 Centrally enroll and manage Linux and Windows machines to establish trust that can be delegated to workloads.
Identify privileged access abuse in real-time
 Advanced session recording, monitoring, and auditing provides new levels of oversight for remote sessions, and aids forensic analysis, corrective action, and compliance reporting.

DATASHEET

Cloud Suite Benefits
ENHANCE SECURITY Implement just-in-time privilege with MFA to align with Zero Trust best practices
MITIGATE RISK Achieve a stronger risk posture, reduce costs, improve security, and reduce IT overhead
MEET COMPLIANCE MANDATES Prove regulatory compliance and simplify forensic investigation of cloud provider instances
SCALE SEAMLESSLY Leverage critical benefits of the cloud economy such as elasticity and multi-tenancy
COMPLIANCE & INCIDENT INVESTIGATION Advanced host-based session recording, auditing, and reporting
REDUCE COSTS Leverage existing investments to secure your cloud-based assets

DATASHEET Cloud Suite

PAM-as-a-Service for modern organizations
Cloud-native PAM protects your multi-cloud infrastructure from identity-centric data breaches. Delinea's Cloud Suite addresses access management challenges presented by the cloud, big data, DevOps tools, containers, microservices, and more.Take advantage of the cloud economy without compromising the privileged access governance and enterprise access security you'd expect on-premise.

Cloud Authentication Service Simplifies user authentication to servers from any directory service, including Active Directory, OpenLDAP, and cloud directories such as Azure AD, Okta, or Ping. Secure access to Linux, Unix, and Windows virtual systems and containers. Enforce adaptive MFA for stronger identity assurance.
 Multi-directory brokering
 Machine identity, delegated machine credentials, and credential management
 Authentication policy management
 MFA at system login

Cloud Audit and Monitoring Service Helps with compliance and incident response by auditing everything and tying activity to an individual identity. Identify abuse of privilege, thwart attacks, and quickly prove regulatory compliance with a detailed audit trail and video recordings that capture all privileged activity.
 Advanced host-based session recording, auditing, and reporting
 Gateway session recording, monitoring, and control

Cloud Privilege Elevation Service Enforces the principle of least privilege across multicloud workloads to minimize the risk of a security breach. Administrators can request just-in-time privilege elevation for a limited time.
 Consistent, dynamic, and automated security policy management
 Just-in-time privilege
 MFA at privilege elevation

Free 30-Day trial and product demonstrations at Delinea.com
Delinea is focused on the most vulnerable attack vector -- privilege. With Delinea, you can adopt a multi-layered approach that covers your privilege security needs from endpoints to credentials, ensuring protection at every step of an attacker's chain.

Delinea is a leading provider of privileged access management (PAM) solutions that make security seamless for the modern, hybrid enterprise. Our solutions empower organizations to secure critical data, devices, code, and cloud infrastructure to help reduce risk, ensure compliance, and simplify security. Delinea removes complexity and defines the boundaries of access for thousands of customers worldwide, including over half of the Fortune 100. delinea.com
 Delinea

