Privileged Access Management for On-Premise Infrastructure
Protect Your Servers Against Identity-Based Attacks

SERVER SUITE

Digital transformation leads to fragmented identities across a hybrid enterprise infrastructure. A modern privileged access management (PAM) solution takes an identity-centric approach to protect your organization against new and evolving threats. Server Suite allows humans and machines to authenticate to on-premise infrastructure, enforcing least privilege with just-in-time privilege elevation, increasing accountability, and reducing risk.

Easy to Deploy, Fully Integrated, Low Complexity Solution  Centralized solution for enterprises with heterogeneous infrastructures
Identity Consolidation with Advanced Active Directory (AD) Bridging  Best-in-class, advanced AD bridging for complex architectures
Just-in-Time (JIT) Privilege Elevation  Flexible, fine-grained privilege elevation for zero standing privileges

Identity Assurance Everywhere  Multi-factor authentication (MFA) at
system login and privilege elevation
Full Visibility and Control of Privileged Activities  Cross-platform auditing, session recording, and policy enforcement on the host
 Readily customizable means no need to spend extra time or money

Server Suite Benefits
ENHANCE SECURITY Enforce zero standing privileges and reduce lateral movement
STREAMLINE POLICY MANAGEMENT Centralize PAM policy management and enforce PAM policy on each server
IMPROVE PRODUCTIVITY Protect your servers with MFA and JIT policy and controls
CENTRALIZE CONTROL Centrally manage machine identities and their credentials within Active Directory
COMPLIANCE & INCIDENT INVESTIGATION Advanced host-based session recording, auditing, and reporting
MITIGATE RISK Achieve a stronger risk posture, lower costs, improve security, and reduce IT overhead

DATASHEET

DATASHEET Server Suite

Minimize your attack surface and control privileged access
Server Suite minimizes the attack surface through advanced PAM capabilities such as identity consolidation, real-time password reconciliation, delegated machine credentials, brokered authentication, and just-in-time privilege with MFA, while auditing everything.

Authentication Service Extend Active Directory (AD) benefits to on-premise Linux and Unix servers by natively joining them to AD, turning the host system into an AD client. Secure access consistently, using the same authentication and Group Policy services deployed for Windows systems.
 Active Directory bridging  Machine identity and credential management  Brokered authentication  MFA at system login  Approval workflows for login  Unified policy management
Privilege Elevation Service Control privilege elevation on on-premise Windows, Linux, and Unix servers. Instead of standing privileges, self-service workflows allow administrators to request temporary roles to complete legitimate tasks with just-in-time access.
 Approval workflows for privilege elevation
 Patented "Zones" technology for RBAC policy
 Delegated machine credentials

Audit and Monitoring Get a holistic view of all privileged activity across on-premise Windows, Linux, and Unix servers. Associate unique identities with all privileged activity to increase accountability. Leverage out-of-box reports for regulatory compliance and incident response investigations.
 Host-based audit and monitoring
 Gateway-based audit and monitoring
 Linux and Unix advanced monitoring at the shell and process levels

Learn more at Delinea.com
Delinea is a leading provider of privileged access management (PAM) solutions that make security seamless for the modern, hybrid enterprise. Our solutions empower organizations to secure critical data, devices, code, and cloud infrastructure to help reduce risk, ensure compliance, and simplify security. Delinea removes complexity and defines the boundaries of access for thousands of customers worldwide, including over half of the Fortune 100. delinea.com  Delinea

