SECRET SERVER
Privileged Access Management at Enterprise Scale
Discover, manage, protect, and audit privileged account access across your organization

As cyberthreats increase in volume and sophistication, effective and agile privileged access management (PAM) is mission-critical for organizations of every size. You can adopt an aggressive privileged account security posture with Secret Server, our enterprise-grade PAM solution available both on premise and in the cloud. Empower your security and IT ops teams to secure and manage all types of privileged accounts quickly and easily.

Protect privileged credentials  Vaulting secures passwords,
secrets, keys, and certificates across your enterprise.
 Proactive protection includes automated password creation, rotation, and expiration.
 Intelligent workflow includes checkout, privileged access request, justification requirements, and tiered approval.
Reduce your attack surface  Discovery finds unmanaged privileged
accounts across your enterprise.
 Rotation keeps credentials fresh without breaking dependencies.
 DevOps workflow extends PAM protection to development and operations teams.
Control privileged access  Granular policy control applies to all
types of privileged identities.
 Custom script support lets you configure dependencies and integrations on your own terms.

Detect suspicious activity  Real-time session management
includes monitoring, proxying, session recording, and keystroke logging.
 Integrations with SIEM and vulnerability scanners provide visibility for incident response.
 Integration with behavioral analysis leverages machine learning to identify abnormal user behavior.
Audit and report  Immutable audit log demonstrates
compliance with best practice and regulatory frameworks.
 Detailed, searchable logs of privileged activities assist with forensic review.
Get started fast  Wizard-based configuration and
deployment steps are easy to follow.
 APIs and accessible scripts let you adapt Secret Server to match your needs.
 Readily customizable means no need to spend extra time or money.

DATASHEET

Secret Server Benefits
DECREASE RISK Protect privileged accounts to tighten your attack surface
UNBURDEN IT TEAMS Control PAM easily with an intuitive interface and streamlined design
MEET COMPLIANCE MANDATES Avoid significant financial penalties
SCALE YOUR PAM PROGRAM Deploy elastically within Delinea's enterprise-secure architecture
REALIZE FAST ROI Configure rapidly with wizard-driven setup and configuration

DATASHEET Secret Server
PAM controls protect access to critical systems
IT operations and security teams manage Secret Server with comprehensive, policy-based controls, without the complexity or management burden of legacy PAM solutions. Secret Server makes powerful PAM easy.
Seamless access We believe complex security tools are downright dangerous because they don't get used. That's why we designed Secret Server with an intuitive user interface and controls that integrate seamlessly with workflow systems people use every day.

Free 30-day trial and product demonstrations at Delinea.com
Delinea is focused on the most vulnerable attack vector -- privilege. With Delinea, you can adopt a multi-layered approach that covers your privilege security needs from endpoints to credentials, ensuring protection at every step of an attacker's chain.
AN EDITION DESIGNED FOR EVERY TYPE OF ORGANIZATION, AVAILABLE ON-PREMISE OR IN THE CLOUD The flexibility and agility to scale PAM security controls on your own terms

SECRET SERVER
Vault Edition
Affordable, easy-to-use PAM protection for your business

SECRET SERVER
Professional Edition
Intelligent PAM automation to meet best practices and compliance obligations

SECRET SERVER
Platinum Edition
Next-generation PAM for maximum security and agility

Delinea is a leading provider of privileged access management (PAM) solutions that make security seamless for the modern, hybrid enterprise. Our solutions empower organizations to secure critical data, devices, code, and cloud infrastructure to help reduce risk, ensure compliance, and simplify security. Delinea removes complexity and defines the boundaries of access for thousands of customers worldwide, including over half of the Fortune 100. delinea.com
 Delinea

