PRIVILEGE MANAGER
Privilege Management for Workstations
Easy for IT operations. Seamless for business users.

User workstations are a common entry point for cyberattacks. Cybercriminals use malware, ransomware, and other strategies to infiltrate your IT environment through a user workstation and leverage that access to cause damage to critical systems.
Delinea's Privilege Manager makes it possible to implement a least privilege security posture and eliminate local administrative privileges on workstations. Privilege elevation and integrated application control keeps your workforce productive while reducing risk.

Implement and enforce least privilege
· Remove excess privileges and permanently control which accounts are members of any local group.
· Continuously discover applications and processes tied to privileged accounts.

Lower IT support costs · Avoid helpdesk tickets with policy-
based privilege elevation.
· Reduce hardware issues with more uniform workstations.
· Maintain productivity with ServiceNow integration and mobile application.

Create granular application control policies
· Allow people to use applications they need to do their jobs, without requiring local admin rights.

Protect workstations
· Automatically discover and remove all admin credentials from domain and non-domain workstations, including Windows, Mac, and Unix/Linux.

· Enable central, policy-based controls with threat intelligence and allow and deny lists.

Deploy at cloud speed and scale
· Manage and update thousands of machines.

· Scale deployments elastically within our flexible architecture.

Privilege Manager Benefits
IMPROVE SECURITY Protect privileged accounts to tighten your attack surface and build resilience
UNBURDEN IT TEAMS Control PAM easily with an intuitive interface and streamlined design
MEET COMPLIANCE MANDATES Avoid significant financial penalties
SCALE YOUR PAM PROGRAM Deploy elastically within Delinea's enterprise-secure architecture

DATASHEET

DATASHEET Privilege Manager
Set policies based on security and business needs
Delinea's Privilege Manager is the most comprehensive privilege elevation and application control solution for workstations, capable of supporting enterprises and fast-growing organizations at cloud scale. Removing excess privileges from workstations prevents malware attacks, policy-based application controls keep people productive, and actionable reporting demonstrates progress and compliance to executives and auditors.
All-in-one solution for least privilege management, threat intelligence, and application control · Manage domain and non-domain workstations · Manage and remove local admin rights · Allow, deny, restrict, and elevate applications · Improve IT and employee productivity

An edition designed for every organization, available on-premise or in the cloud
The flexibility and agility to scale PAM security controls on your own terms

PRIVILEGE MANAGER
On-premise
Intelligent PAM to meet cybersecurity and least privilege best practices and compliance obligations

PRIVILEGE MANAGER
Cloud
Enterprise-Grade PAM-asa-Service to support large enterprises and fast-growing organizations at scale

Free 30-day trial and product demonstrations at Delinea.com
Delinea is focused on the most vulnerable attack vector ­ privilege. With Delinea you can adopt a multi-layered approach that covers your privileged security needs from endpoints to credentials, ensuring protection at every step of an attacker's chain.

Delinea is a leading provider of privileged access management (PAM) solutions that make security seamless for the modern, hybrid enterprise. Our solutions empower organizations to secure critical data, devices, code, and cloud infrastructure to help reduce risk, ensure compliance, and simplify security. Delinea removes complexity and defines the boundaries of access for thousands of customers worldwide, including over half of the Fortune 100. delinea.com
© Delinea

