Take Control. Eliminate SSH Key Sprawl.
Discover, manage and automate the lifecycle of SSH keys across your network and multi-cloud environments.

DATASHEET

Take control of your SSH risks
SSH keys enable privileged access to machines across your network, yet security teams often have limited or no control over them. Excessive SSH privileges and unmanaged keys lead to audit failure, or worse, a security breach.
Keyfactor SSH Key Manager helps security teams take back control with centralized visibility and policy enforcement across any network or cloud environment.

57%
say they do not have an accurate inventory of SSH keys
-- 2021 State of Machine Identity Management Report

Key Benefits

Simplify SSH audits and compliance
Proactively discover and monitor the use of all SSH keys in your network and clouds from one console.

Reduce risk and eliminate key sprawl
Identify and remove unused or unauthorized SSH keys in your network and enforce regular expiration and rotation.

Automate SSH access and key provisioning
Enable users to generate keys via self-service and automate deployment to server and cloud workloads.

Key Capabilities
Discover unknown and unauthorized SSH keys
Automatically scan hosts across your network and cloud services, and bring keys into one platform. Once discovered, you can easily search through your inventory and map keys to associated users, machines and service accounts.

HOW IT WORKS
Discover
Find all of your SSH keys and manage them effectively from a single console.
Remediate
Quickly delete outdated, non-compliant, or rogue keys in real-time.
Automate
Enable users to generate keys on-demand and automatically deploy them to servers.

Remediate risks and enforce key rotation
Switch from inventory-only to manage mode to identify and remove unauthorized or stale keys with just a click. Define maximum key lifespans and schedule automated key rotation alerts to ensure compliance with enterprise policy.

© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

Automate SSH access and key deployment
SSH Key Manager syncs with Active Directory (AD) or your identity provider to easily assign and revoke SSH access for specific users and groups. Bash Orchestrators work seamlessly to automatically provision and revoke SSH keys from servers or server groups.
Simplify audits and stay ahead of threats
Get real-time visibility into SSH keys and configurations, such as key algorithms, status, and root access. Schedule reports on key rotation status and access privileges, and get notified when rogue keys are created out of band.
© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

Divide and conquer your SSH key landscape
Delegate role-based access to enterprise administrators, server administrators, and end users -- allow users to generate and rotate their own keys via self-service portal or REST API.

Why Keyfactor

Cloud-first
Deploy SSH Key Manager in the cloud as a service or on-premise as a software appliance.

Automation-friendly
Remote install scripts allow you to assign SSH access immediately as servers are spun up.

Non-disruptive
Works with your existing SSH keys and connections, no need for heavy scripting.

No per-host fees
Simple, predictable pricing. Scale up fast without per-host fees getting in your way.

Easy to integrate
Open-source bash orchestrator plugs into Oracle Linux, RHEL, Ubuntu, and more.

Platform or standalone
SSH Key Manager is available as an add-on module or a standalone product.

See it in action
Find out how to take control of your SSH keys. Book a demo today.
© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

REQUEST DEMO

