DEEP PACKET INSPECTION
ipoque, a Rohde&Schwarz company
SERVICE AND SUPPORT R&S®PACE 2

TABLE OF CONTENT
Table of content..................................................................................................... 2 Service and support that keeps you operative...................................................... 3 Our DPI expertise -- your benefit........................................................................ 4 An approach that has it all.................................................................................... 5 A team of experts at your side.............................................................................. 6 Easily accessible service....................................................................................... 8 A service you can count on: our support channels............................................. 10 Real insights: customer interview....................................................................... 11

IPOQUE, A ROHDE&SCHWARZ COMPANY 
SERVICE AND SUPPORT THAT KEEPS YOU OPERATIVE
As a leading provider of OEM deep packet inspection (DPI) software, we deliver comprehensive visibility of network activity, empowering companies worldwide to transform raw IP data into business intelligence. With ongoing customer-centric account management for network equipment and software vendors right from the beginning, we stay focused on what is important.
Over 15 years of experience in IP network analytics and 100 customers in over 90 countries speak for themselves. We are at your side, even when things get complicated. If you seek to innovate and transform your business with DPI in a safer way, we are ready to team up with you. Stay operative with proactive service from our global team of experts, trained and professionally qualified to meet your needs. While you focus on your business goals, we act as your IP data watchdog. With our full range of services, a deep understanding of our clients' needs, the right tools and, above all, our excellent employees, we regularly exceed our clients' expectations. We are excited to learn about yours.
2 / 3

OUR DPI EXPERTISE -- YOUR BENEFIT

Our OEM DPI software R&S®PACE 2 enables you to meet aggressive product cycles and ease the work of your developers, keeping them focused on your core technology. Thanks to its easy integration, R&S®PACE 2 limits the time to market, empowering breakthrough ideas.

Flexible and powerful: R&S®PACE 2

OEM customer benefits

With ever-evolving network protocols and applications, only an up-to-date DPI library can ensure a reliable IP traffic classification. R&S®PACE 2 classifies thousands of applications and protocols. All in real time, regardless of advanced obfuscation or encryption. Additionally, R&S®PACE 2 provides content and metadata extraction, which is vital for quality of service (QoS) and quality of experience (QoE) metrics as well as cyber security use cases.
With the smallest processing footprint on the market, the software library needs close to zero memory during runtime. R&S®PACE 2 has no external dependencies and works on all standard servers and operating systems as well as on physical, virtual and SDN architectures. With weekly updates that add and update application and protocol signatures, we offer the highest traffic detection rate around. Continuous performance and reliability testing ensures that no application remains undetected and enables a smooth operation. With an average throughput of 14Gbps per core and almost linear scalability, the performance of R&S®PACE 2 is market-leading.

 Customize the DPI software to meet individual requirements and apply to specific use cases
 Focus on your core competencies to become more efficient and profitable
 Innovate and differentiate your product offerings  Speed up time to market by optimizing the
development schedule  Accelerate performance and scale  Reduce development costs by outsourcing DPI
software  Maximize return on investment (ROI)
"We appreciated Rohde&Schwarz' support from our startup days and we knew that there were others globally working with their solutions. For us, this meant that Rohde&Schwarz' DPI library would keep growing, enabling us to secure SD-WANs proactively and in real time. Our investment in R&S®PACE 2 has paid off early because of their knowledge of DPI and the high-value support that Rohde&Schwarz provides."
Ramakrishnan Govindhan, Co-Founder and Chief Technologist at Nubewell

IPOQUE, A ROHDE&SCHWARZ COMPANY 
AN APPROACH THAT HAS IT ALL
With R&S®PACE 2, we are proud to offer a top-notch service you can trust and that keeps your projects running at full pace. Our approach anticipates issues before they occur. Whenever you need us, we offer reliable, expert-level support:
 Cutting-edge technology  Comprehensive services that go far beyond the standard warranty  Prompt and smooth integration around the world  Standardized support building blocks that are optimized to suit your exact requirements

Anytime
We adapt our support and services to your needs. Buying from Rohde&Schwarz comes with flexible service level agreements (SLAs), first-level support and optional 24/7 availability at your convenience. Our consulting engineers are at the ready and can even provide on-site service within a few hours.

Anywhere
For rapid resolutions, our service follows the sun. We make sure to handle your case even beyond the working day of one time zone. The end of the day does not mean the end of our certified service. Our primary service language is English. In addition, we offer support in other languages upon request. We will always assist you in the best possible way.

Service feedback culture
With our extensive quality management, we maintain the high performance level of our customer service and support center. We value our customers' feedback, carrying out independent and voluntary customer surveys every other month. The results help us to optimize our service continuously. We are proud of an average five-star rating.

4 / 5

A TEAM OF EXPERTS AT YOUR SIDE

Our highly skilled experts address your individual challenges with a detailed understanding of your environment and business needs. Provided with intimate knowledge of the R&S®PACE 2 technology embedded in network solutions, our consulting team is available around the clock to diagnose and resolve technical problems rapidly and to plan future support actions that reduce your long-term maintenance costs.

The advanced DPI software R&S®PACE 2 is a powerful tool that adapts to different use cases and requirements. Each customer is unique, which is reflected in the individual solutions offered by our team of consulting engineers. With their assistance, including virtual and on-site engineering support, you can drastically reduce your time to market.
Dedicated support by consulting engineers
R&S®PACE 2 is easy and fast to integrate, thanks to onsite integration assistance by our consulting engineers who bring years of professional experience, including knowledge of integration shortcuts and the ability to quickly resolve issues and technical questions on the spot. The consulting team is available around the clock via phone or email and ready to travel to your location. In addition to integration support, our consulting engineers can help you optimize your code with code reviews and troubleshooting assistance. They also pro-

vide individual solutions through custom development and proof-of-concept trials. Overall, our consulting engineers cover integration, optimization and support by concentrating on application engineering, optimization and hands-on training:
Application engineering With their comprehensive knowledge, our consulting engineers will identify the optimal R&S®PACE 2 feature set to fulfill your use case requirements and assist with the architectural decisions that go along with integrating the DPI engine. Their integration support ranges from the packet processing level, including the frameworks DPDK, VPP and PF_RING, up to the application level. Additionally, you can rely on our consulting engineers to proactively introduce new and upcoming features that are relevant to your use case. All in all, our application engineering services help to reduce your time to market and increase your focus on your core product.

Optimization R&S®PACE 2 is a universal product whose included services ultimately depend on the customized variety. After identifying your requirements and goals, our consulting engineers will assist you in optimizing the individual configuration accordingly. They will help to reveal bottlenecks, improve packet throughput and define DPI-centric test cases for your quality assurance. Reliable feedback loops ensure that your suggestions and requests, for example regarding individual consulting or new features, reach us promptly and enable you to directly influence the product development.

Hands-on training Whenever you require hands-on training, our consulting engineers are at your side with a wide variety of training programs, available on-site or remotely: from high-level R&S®PACE 2 trainings to low-level feature and integration trainings. We deliver custom-made learning events that are specific to your solutions and use cases, and that meet the demands of the attendees -- be they project managers, engineers or C-level executives.

6 / 7

EASILY ACCESSIBLE SERVICE
The customer lifecycle related to our DPI software R&S®PACE 2 makes the difference for customers who consider purchasing and using Rohde&Schwarz products and services. At Rohde&Schwarz, we believe that technical support should go beyond basic troubleshooting. We know that continued optimization and maintenance extend the life of your system and ensure a smooth and efficient operation. Let us protect your investment.

Customer service and support options

Adaptable service level agreements (SLAs)

Choose what you really need today, and adapt your solution to new situations in the future. Our multi- level support provides the technical expertise that your mission-critical applications require. Our different service levels adapt to your specific needs. Depending on your individual requirements, we offer fast and accurate reactions to any critical, major or minor issue that may occur. We handle all issues in three phases: first technical response, recovery and resolution. To ensure a timely resolution in line with your schedules, you can choose a default response time that you can adjust to your requirements at any time.

Our default service package covers all the basics to keep your business running: web, email and phone support channels, easy problem reporting, software downloads, updates and maintenance plus remote consulting. You can adjust your individual services to match the SLAs of your end customers. Additional services, such as proactive communication and alerts or monthly support performance reports, establish a high level of transparency. You can add individual services at your convenience, for example monthly time budgets for integration consulting. We gladly advise you on which service level best suits your needs.

KEY SERVICES
Easy and fast problem reporting Facing issues? Our ticket tracking service allows for unlimited problem reports around the clock from anyw here around the world.
Customer portal Our R&S®PACE 2 engineers work continuously on the weekly updates that include classification algorithms for new protocols and applications and updates for existing signatures. We roll out software updates with new features several times a year. In addition, we distribute maintenance releases that solve reported issues whenever necessary.

IPOQUE, A ROHDE&SCHWARZ COMPANY 
Support channels Depending on your SLA, we provide different support channels:  Web: Customer portal and ticket tracking system  Email: Customer support email address  Phone: Customer support hotline
Adaptable SLAs Adjust our default response times to your needs and meet your schedules more easily.
Integration consulting Our consulting engineers can coordinate and support the integration of our products into your solutions.
Remote assistance Remote assistance sessions are an option to solve reported problems.
Remote technical consulting To help with of product planning and evaluation, we offer remote technical consulting.
Monthly report on support performance Evaluate our customer support: With an overview of all pending inquiries, this report can help you to identify bottlenecks and understand the fulfillment rate of the agreed service level.
Proactive communication and alerts As soon as we become aware of issues that affect customers' solutions, our customer support team gets in touch right away before things get critical.
Support from a dedicated account manager As a customer, you are assigned a dedicated account manager who is responsible for your service requests and is your central point of contact for any request.

8 / 9

A SERVICE YOU CAN COUNT ON: OUR SUPPORT CHANNELS

Service excellence is a signature benefit of Rohde&Schwarz. We guarantee short response times and fewer system downtimes thanks to professional quick fixes and excellent support from experienced system specialists.

Online ticket tracking service Customers receive dedicated access credentials to:  Open/manage unlimited troubleshooting issues  Handle priority levels  Keep up to date with your ticket status  Share documents and attachments
Emergency and hotline service Issues do not wait until business hours. This is why we are always at your side. Designated support engineers are available around the clock for all questions related to system hardware, software, functionality  and handling.

 Receive professional quick fixes and workarounds to keep you operative
 You can book individual 24/7 service with limited duration, for example during critical conversion phases
On-site support We organize visits and trainings by dedicated experts:  Integration consulting with close technical
cooperation  Optimization consulting for highest system
performance  Troubleshooting and debugging  Face-to-face information on the latest software
enhancements
Individual consulting and feature request Our consulting engineers offer additional R&S®PACE 2 know-how for your company to meet your technology challenges. As a customer, you can influence our product roadmap, for example by requesting new application and protocol classifications or even new features. In regular meetings with our account managers, we present product roadmap updates, assess further requirements for your solution and keep up with your business strategy.

IPOQUE, A ROHDE&SCHWARZ COMPANY 
REAL INSIGHTS: CUSTOMER INTERVIEW

Barracuda is a worldwide market leader in providing security, networking and storage products based on network appliances and cloud services. In this interview, Barracuda's director of next-generation firewall engineering, Bernhard Patsch, explains why his company decided to work with Rohde&Schwarz for over 10 years now.

What is the most important component you offer? One of the key components of our CloudGen Firewall is a large-scale management infrastructure that provides easyto-deploy solutions for network security to customers from all industries such as retail, finance and education.
What comes to your mind when you think of Rohde&Schwarz? Rohde&Schwarz is a well-known brand in the network analytics and security business. When we investigated DPI solutions, we inevitably came across Rohde&Schwarz' subsidiary ipoque. From the very first moment on, we had a very good feeling about their technology, support and service, so we decided to work with them. We have been a Rohde&Schwarz customer for over 10 years and we are still very happy with our decision.

What are the main reasons for your loyalty to Rohde&Schwarz? Besides the excellent DPI technology, we also like the fast and responsive service and support. Rohde&Schwarz is always open towards our requests and ideas. We really feel like equal partners that grow and succeed together in the market.
How does Rohde&Schwarz accomplish this? Rohde&Schwarz always addresses our ideas and requests for their DPI solution quickly. We get new product updates and features on a regular basis, which enables us to optimize our solutions and respond fast to the demands of our customers. And we can meet the needs and requirements of the network security market.
So, would you recommend Rohde&Schwarz? I would absolutely recommend the DPI engine from Rohde&Schwarz. We have a very strong partnership and they always provide quick service and excellent support. Furthermore, their technology has very accurate protocol and application classification, which is very important for our business and our customers. Rohde&Schwarz has the capacity and the infrastructure to build their deep packet inspection technology and maintain it on a daily basis. It is very important for us that they respond to our ideas and new protocols swiftly, and that we get regular and frequent updates.
10 / 11

GET IN TOUCH WITH US
Phone: +49 341 59403 0 Email: sales.ipoque@rohde-schwarz.com

ipoque
ipoque, a Rohde&Schwarz company, is a global leader in the world of network analytics software. We leverage our deep domain expertise to create customized software solutions that empower our customers to transform data into intelligence. As a subsidiary of Rohde&Schwarz, we take advantage of potential synergies.
Rohde&Schwarz
The Rohde&Schwarz technology group develops, produces and markets innovative information and communications technology products for professional users. Rohde&Schwarz focuses on test and measurement, broadcast and media, cybersecurity, secure communications and monitoring and network testing, areas that address many different industry and government-sector market segments. Founded more than 80 years ago, the independent company has an extensive sales and service network in more than 70 countries.

3608729662

3608.7296.62 01.00 PDP 1 en

ipoque GmbH A Rohde & Schwarz Company Augustusplatz 9, 04109 Leipzig, Germany Info: +49 (0)341 59403 0 Email: info.ipoque@rohde-schwarz.com www.ipoque.com
Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG www.rohde-schwarz.com

R&S® is a registered trademark of Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG Trade names are trademarks of the owners PD 3608.7296.62 | Version 01.00 | September 2020 Service and Support R&S®PACE 2 Data without tolerance limits is not binding | Subject to change © 2020 Rohde&Schwarz GmbH&Co. KG | 81671 Munich, Germany

