GOVERN

www.dryvIQ.com info@dryvIQ.com 888.550.3721

Continually maintain control and oversight of enterprise content
Automated rules-based actions to continuously safeguard enterprise content and avoid data loss, while enabling compliance

Eliminate risk and spend more time doing what you do best
With unstructured data growing at a rate of more than 50% per year, safeguarding that content can feel impossible. Relying on users and manual processes to ensure your content is properly managed is an impossible ask, rife with opportunities for mistakes.
This lack of control opens organizations up to large fines, loss of sensitive data or intellectual property, operational inefficiency, or a negative impact on market and brand value.

45%
of organizations lack data governance, leaving them open to litigation and data
security risks

Continually safeguard your content
Leveraging artificial intelligence processing, the Dryv platform continuously monitors for sensitive information or incorrectly applied labels that may expose your organization to loss of intellectual property, financial damage, or other vulnerabilities.
At-risk content can be acted upon and safeguarded based on a series of configurable rules and policies. The Dryv platform will process the policy rules, while notifying system administrators or other stakeholders in real-time.

Take action on your content
The platform's policy orchestration layer can execute a variety of out-of-the-box actions, fully orchestrating scenarios to meet the unique needs of your business.

Data Driven Awareness.

Data Driven Awareness.
You set the rules--we enforce them
Once your organization has defined and configured governance policies within the platform, Dryv's policy orchestration engine will ensure your rules are followed, without the need for user input. Every action, status, and history are tracked, including when actions were taken to safeguard content. This enables companies to easily disclose compliance measures to auditors at any point within the information lifecycle. A comprehensive report will reveal any sensitive or vulnerable content that may have found a hiding place among your repositories when you weren't looking--as well as the financial impact each violation could represent to your organization if left unresolved, based on privacy or compliance regulations.
Proactive content safeguarding
Beyond just reporting on these risks, the Dryv platform can take steps to mitigate them. With automated oversight and remediation, your organization will continuously and confidently:
Ensure content is classified properly for both discovering and safeguarding
Ensure content is labeled properly so that parallel DLP policies can be applied
Ensure that permissions are set correctly so that sensitive content is not at risk
Trusted by over 1,100 companies across the globe
Data Driven Awareness.
With over 1,100 customers, DryvIQ helps the largest companies in the world safeguard their enterprise content and reduce corporate risk. DryvIQ represents the next generation of enterprise data management EDM platforms, leveraging modern advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning to deliver a unified experience for identifying, organizing, and managing the risk contained within unstructured data across the enterprise.
DryvIQ, Inc. All Rights Reserved. DryvIQ is a registered trademark of DrvyIQ, Inc. All other product and service names, logos, and brands cited herein are the proper of their respective owners.

