MIGRATE

www.dryvIQ.com info@dryvIQ.com 888.550.3721

Intelligent and scalable enterprise content migration
Know your content before moving--classify, organize, and secure content during your migration at scale.
New storage platform, same problems
As storage platforms continue to evolve, organizations will always need to migrate enterprise content. But these transitions can often shift old problems to new platforms.
Unintentionally, your organization could migrate sensitive and risky content to the new system--and features designed to enhance collaboration and productivity may increase vulnerability and risk of data loss. Migration without knowing what content you're moving can be risky.
Make better, informed decisions faster
An upgrade to your enterprise storage provides a real opportunity to fully understand your content landscape. The Dryv platform will proactively discover and classify sensitive content before you migrate enabling informed decision making on content location and permissions--thus ultimately reducing corporate risk and exposure.
By leveraging pre-migration investments in entities and policies, organizations can continually scan and safeguard their content in new environments. Answer key questions, such as:

How much content are we managing? What types of documents do I have and where should they be migrated to? Where is my sensitive data located? How sensitive is it? Who has access to my data? Which files have been shared externally...and with who? Is my data vulnerable? If end users have been manually labeling files...are they doing it properly? How can we stay on top of the rapid growth in unstructured data we're facing?

Data Driven Awareness.

Data Driven Awareness.

Discover & Classify
Obtain a full inventory of source system content including content age, document type, and volume; permissions and sharing insights; classification and sensitivity; and other file attributes If classification labels are missing or incorrect, apply correct labels and/or update permissions to secure the files
Execute Migration
Create a migration plan that addresses your organization's needs now that you understand your content Migrate and synchronize your files to the destination based on classification and sensitivity --at scale
Continual Oversight
Continually scan and assess sensitivity labels as they are updated or applied to new content Alert, delete, move, lock down or otherwise take corrective action on unsecured data to eliminate financial risk
Begin your intelligent migration journey.

Don't migrate without insight.

Start by discovering your data--once you know what you're working with, you can make intelligent and informed decisions on how exactly to migrate your files and manage your growing volume of unstructured data.

Trusted by over 1,100 companies across the globe

Data Driven Awareness.
With over 1,100 customers, DryvIQ helps the largest companies in the world safeguard their enterprise content and reduce corporate risk. DryvIQ represents the next generation of enterprise data management EDM platforms, leveraging modern advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning to deliver a unified experience for identifying, organizing, and managing the risk contained within unstructured data across the enterprise.
DryvIQ, Inc. All Rights Reserved. DryvIQ is a registered trademark of DrvyIQ, Inc. All other product and service names, logos, and brands cited herein are the proper of their respective owners.

