DISCOVER

www.dryvIQ.com info@dryvIQ.com 888.550.3721

Discover and identify sensitive, critical, and intellectual data and documents
Discovery of unstructured and dark data across all content within connected systems--enabling classification and reporting

Who? What? Where? How much?
Within today's organizations, both the volume of content and the number of applications deployed to manage that content are rapidly expanding.
These rising siloes are casting shadows over growing piles of unstructured data, obscuring sensitivity, security and ownership, and any other potential risks lurking within.
Make better, informed decisions faster
Personally identifiable information PII , corporate trade secrets or other intellectual property may exist in unstructured data repositories without the knowledge of the organization. Sensitive content may not be properly protected and could represent a cost exposure risk to an organization.
The Dryv platform discovers and enables the identification of sensitivity level and assesses the risk criticality of enterprise content. Gain detailed insight into your sensitive content as the platform provides a continuous discovery scan across your enterprise content ecosystem.

88%
of organizations are no longer confident they can detect and prevent loss of sensitive data

Data Driven Awareness.

Data Driven Awareness.
Discover sensitive and critical content across various aspects and scenarios. PII
Enable the continuous identification and classification of PII across files located in any of your connected content repositories.
IT
Enable your IT team to identify sensitive and unprotected key resources unique to technology and protect them within the organization.
M&A
Enable the assessment of unknown content from an acquired organization to properly safeguard content that contains sensitive information.
Divestiture Enable the assessment of content to identify a subset of documents that are relevant to a specific sub-organization that is being divested.
Trusted by over 1,100 companies across the globe
Data Driven Awareness.
With over 1,100 customers, DryvIQ helps the largest companies in the world safeguard their enterprise content and reduce corporate risk. DryvIQ represents the next generation of enterprise data management EDM platforms, leveraging modern advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning to deliver a unified experience for identifying, organizing, and managing the risk contained within unstructured data across the enterprise.
DryvIQ, Inc. All Rights Reserved. DryvIQ is a registered trademark of DrvyIQ, Inc. All other product and service names, logos, and brands cited herein are the proper of their respective owners.

