Next Generation Identity and Access Management:
The Trusted Experience PlatformTM
®

Introduction
The proliferation of digital access has made the world more connected than ever before. With the availability of technology, endless devices, and global access points, today's users--customers and employees--have the flexibility to interface with technology on their own terms.

As a result, businesses are faced with the growing complexity of maintaining a secure environment while ensuring a simple end-user experience.
Identity and Access Management solutions are at the forefront of enterprise security, enabling businesses to have more control over their user identities and sensitive data. However, the industry moves fast, and it is no longer enough to implement a Single Sign-On (SSO) solution or basic Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA).
Businesses today need more. You need a next generation Identity and Access Management platform that you can trust­one that is always-on, provides context-aware authentication for your users, is easy to use, and scales as your business grows.
Trust is the common thread that connects today's elastic enterprise--trust that your identity solution will be there when you need it most and trust that your end-users know their information is safe.
But what does this mean? And what are the elements you should look for in an identity management solution to ensure that you and your organization are always covered?

In this ebook you will learn:
· The security and access management challenges for today's businesses · The definition of a Trusted Experience PlatformTM and why you need one · The four critical elements of a Trusted Experience Platform · How OneLogin helps you deliver trusted experiences
IAM
solutions are at the forefront of enterprise security.

2
®

The challenges with managing enterprise security
It's a scary world out there and businesses are constantly being challenged to keep-pace with the ever-changing tactics of hackers, scammers, and bad actors. Couple that with an always-on user-base that is constantly switching devices, how do you ensure that your business and your end-user data is safe?
Before we dive into the details around what your business needs in a world-class Identity and Access Management platform, let's talk about the challenges facing organizations today.
Your end-users log in everywhere from every device
Gone are the days when your end-users (customers and employees) accessed their accounts from only one place on only one device. Today, users need flexibility as they work from home, access your app from their device while sitting on a beach sipping a Mai Tai, or start a project on their phone but complete it on their laptop.
Without an Identity and Access Management solution to centralize logins and activity, you are opening your organization up to considerable risk from a lack of governance around remote access and managing credentials.
People often have bad password habits
Today, passwords remain the main tool for verifying a user's identity. But the bottom line is that end-users rarely have good password practices. Who has time to develop a new, secure password for every single application that you sign up for? Instead, most people reuse passwords, use easy-to-guess passwords, or write their passwords down on a sticky note. In fact, according to a CNN report, "123456" is the number one most common password. And with passwords like that, you are leaving yourself open to even the least sophisticated hackers.

SaaS adoption is exploding as your business moves to the cloud
With the move to the cloud, SaaS applications are more accessible and easier to procure than ever before. Plus, these applications are now often purchased outside of central IT as software gets easier for line-of-business stakeholders to implement and adopt. And without a centralized hub to manage your apps, you have SaaS sprawl with inconsistent policies for security and access.
Additionally, many businesses still have on-premises legacy applications, like data centers, that further complicate matters. How do you connect your legacy systems with your new cloud-based applications to ensure a holistic approach to identity management?
Manual access management is time consuming and expensive
All the complexities of today's business slows operations, drains resources, and costs time and money to maintain. Whether you manage your identities through multiple instances of Active Directory, a multitude of SaaS applications, or your own home-grown identity solution, your IT team spends a lot of time and energy managing the needs across your organization. Think about how long it takes to onboard and offboard an employee. What about troubleshooting a password reset in the middle of your day? All of these manual tasks take time away from what matters--growing your business.

3
®

Impacted user experience
While it is critical to think about how your business is impacted by not having an identity solution, you also need to think about the end-user experience. You need to ensure that your business is secure, but at what cost? Whether your end-user is an employee or a customer, you must provide a good user-experience. While having multiple layers of authentication is great to secure your organization from a breach, it won't take long for your end-user to be annoyed after you ask them to log in on their computer, their phone, and by clicking a link in an email each time they try to access your product.
me@email.com

The Trusted Experience PlatformTM
The speed and complexity of today's business environment requires an Identity and Access Management solution that can provide the foundation to build secure, scalable, and smart experiences connecting your end-users (employees, partners, and customers) with technology on their own terms.
You need a solution, like the OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform that seamlessly manages your digital identities so you can focus on what matters most--growing your business. You need an Identity and Access Management Platform that you can trust--one that is always-on, reliable, grows with your business, and provides the change management that you need for your identity strategy to be effective.
The next generation identity management, becomes a practice that enables your business, not just a pointsolution for passwords.
Trusted workforce experience
The modern workplace is changing and your organization has to change with it. Whether you are undergoing a digital transformation initiative, implementing a BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) policy, or enabling an extended workforce, you need to ensure that your organization is secure. Plus, without a trusted Identity Management solution, your IT department is wasting valuable time and resources manually onboarding and offboarding employees, provisioning a myriad of applications, and resetting lost passwords.
OneLogin's Trusted Workforce Experience provides everything you need for a modern identity strategy that is smart, secure, and offers a seamless experience for your end-users.

4
®

" Our Trusted Workforce Experience delivers the ability to connect
all of your applications--in the cloud or on-premises--and all of your workers in one centralized location. Additionally, we provide advanced functionality by leveraging machine learning to deliver smart, contextaware, and on-demand threat intelligence that learns about your unique

To consistently deliver great customer experiences, you must be customer obsessed. To be customer obsessed, you must think and operate differently, prioritizing invest-

users and business as it continues to grow.

ments in business technology, that is, the

Plus, we enable best practices through products, like Sandbox, so your

technology, systems, and processes that

team can deploy in a test environment before launching in production-- reducing the risk associated with pushing out new application changes and updates.
Trusted customer experience
Breaches that impact customer data is a common talk-track in the news, on social media, and by word-of-mouth. Many of your customers are scared to provide you their data, and as a result, it is incumbent upon your organization that your customers trust your business and feel protected.

" help win, serve, and retain customers.
IAM is one of those business technologies.
Forrester Research
Trusted developer experience
Your developers know your business better than anyone else and that is why we created OneLogin with the developer experience in mind. With OneLogin, your developers can spend more time customizing the experience of your end-users and less time managing an identity solution.

For your end-users, you need to provide an identity experience that is so seamless that your customers don't even realize that a security solution is there. You need a trusted solution that can manage your customer identity operations at the massive scale your customers demand.
Bottom-line--a better user experience will increase customer engagement, increase conversions, and drive revenue.
OneLogin's Trusted Customer Experience provides a secure and reliable solution so you can protect against devastating breaches without sacrificing user experience. And through our advanced machine learning capabilities we provide a more predictive way to manage customer identity lifecycle.

With our rich APIs and toolkits, you can easily integrate your existing web properties with OneLogin's Trusted Experience Platform for user synchronization, authentication, and single sign-on. We are constantly expanding the developer capabilities for our customer Identity and Access Management system so you can create the most compelling, yet secure, experiences for your customers.
The 4 ways IT leaders must evolve their IAM systems
· Integrate more closely with security and fraud systems
· Support higher levels of automation
· Incorporate a developer security operations approach
· Implement customer data management policies that align with customer preferences
-Mary Rudy, Gartner Analyst

5
®

The 4 pillars of a trusted experience patform
While implementing a foundational Identity and Access Management solution is imperative to keep your business, employee, and customer data safe, the industry is changing fast and there are many obstacles in the way of success. For your organization to truly embrace an Identity and Access strategy that keeps-pace with today's speed-of-business, you must think holistically around what you need today, tomorrow, and beyond.
For long-term success, a Trusted Experience Platform should be secure, scalable, smart, and simple to use.
1. Secure
Security is the cornerstone of trust. It's the confidence that your identity solution is reliable and always-on, so you can focus on what matters--growing the business. The OneLogin platform protects your organization against threats by securing and centralizing your applications, devices, and end-users all in one place.
Additionally, through our advanced machine learning capabilities, OneLogin can deliver real-time threat intelligence to help automate the process of keeping your business secure.
2. Scalable
Your business is growing fast and you need an Identity and Access Management Platform that can scale as you take on more employees, partners, and customers. You simply can't risk implementing a solution that doesn't have the capacity to keep up with growth.
The OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform was built for performance at scale. With a wide breadth of extensible functionality, we can expand and retract according to the changing needs of your business. Through our enterprise-grade change management solutions, like our Enterprise Sandbox and API Access, you can quickly test large-scale changes before going live in your production instance.

Our high availability Login Clusters elastically load-balance, providing reliable, continuous service when you need it the most. That means if your database is impacted for any reason, your OneLogin environment won't be impacted.
3. Smart
The risk of cyber attacks continues to increase as perpetrators look for smarter and less-detectable ways to circumvent security solutions. And for today's businesses, it is becoming increasingly more difficult to implement solutions that evolve as the methods of attackers evolve. Although Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) has become the defacto tool to protect end-user credentials and your business' sensitive data, static authentication simply isn't enough.
Additionally, as Identity Management solutions seek to find more ways to secure the enterprise, user experience is often sacrificed, causing end-users to become increasingly agitated; seeking out ways to avoid having to authenticate several times.
OneLogin's proprietary machine learning engine, VigilanceAI, works with our SmartFactor technology to deliver a context-aware authentication experience that adjusts in real-time based on the perceived level of threat and risk detected in a particular login situation or login attempt. Not only does SmartFactor provide more intelligent threat protection, but it also provides a better experience for the end-user, as the system learns and adapts authentication requirements based on the typical patterns of behavior.
4. Simple
Ease-of-use and speed-of-adoption are key to ensuring your identity and access management strategy is effectively rolled out across your organization. In order to achieve total adoption, the solution you choose must be simple and straight-forward. And that means simple for you and simple for your users. The OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform was built with usability in mind. We simplify identity and access management by providing a seamless and easy-to-use experience for both administrators and end-users.

6
®

Features and benefits of the OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform
7
®

Features and benefits of the OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform

FEATURES
Single Sign-on Multi-Factor Authentication SmartFactor Authentication VigilanceAI
User Provisioning Unified Directory Access Virtual LDAP Desktop

BENEFITS
· One-click, easy access to your important applications all in one place-in the cloud, behind a firewall, and across all of your devices.
· Prevent unauthorized access by leveraging OneLogin's flexible authentication factors including our mobile authentication application, SMS, voice, biometric options, and a range of third-party options.
· Powered by VigilanceAI, SmartFactor Authentication leverages machine learning algorithms to deliver context-aware authentication to balance security and user experience.
· Our proprietary machine learning engine, VigilanceAI analyzes large volumes of data from first and third party sources to build individual profiles of typical user behavior to identify and communicate anomalies in real-time for advanced threat defense.
· Automated user provisioning for offboarding and onboarding to streamline access control based on role, department, location, title, and more.
· Integrate your directories--like AD, LDAP, and HR systems into one central directory.
· Get unified access management for applications hosted in the cloud, on-premises, or in private data centers.
· Our Virtual LDAP (VLDAP) allows you to bridge your legacy and cloud apps by adding an LDAP interface to OneLogin's cloud directory--enabling you to maintain a mix of cloud and on-prem environments.
· Available for both Windows and Mac computers. Users authenticate when they log into their OS, using the device password and the installed OneLogin Desktop certificate. Your users when logging into their desktop can go to the OneLogin Portal without being prompted for their credentials again, making access fast and easy.

8
®

Features and benefits of the OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform

FEATURES
Mobile identity Protect Shield APIs & Toolkits Sandbox Smart Hooks

BENEFITS
· OneLogin's mobile app for Android, iOS, and Windows phones makes it easy for employees to access their web applications on smartphones and tablets.
· The OneLogin Protect mobile app lets users perform multi-factor authentication for multiple accounts with the click of a button.
· Monitor and eliminate insecure practices--like password reuse and weak passwords-so you can quickly and effectively combat phishing.
· Easily integrate your applications and customize your OneLogin experience through our trusted API access.
· With Sandbox, you never need to blindly deploy a new capability without testing it first. Sandbox enables you to test every update at-scale before you deploy into production.
· Empowers IT and developer teams to tightly integrate other systems with OneLogin. By running serverless code within the platform, you can customize workflows and integrations that address your organization's unique use cases.

Conclusion
As today's complex digital environment continues to evolve at breakneck speed, your business and Identity and Access Management solution must evolve with it. To remain secure, it isn't enough to simply implement a Single Sign-on solution for end-user access. Instead, you need to develop a holistic approach to Identity and Access Management--one that is deeply rooted in trust.

The OneLogin Trusted Experience Platform provides the next-gen capabilities you need across your workforce, partners, and customers to deliver an always-on, contextaware, and easy-to-use solution so you can sleep at night knowing that "it just works."

9
®

About One Identity
One Identity delivers unified identity security solutions that help customers strengthen their overall cybersecurity posture and protect the people, applications and data essential to business. Our Unified Identity Security Platform brings together best-in-class Identity Governance and Administration (IGA), Identity and Access Management (IAM), Privileged Access Management (PAM) and Active Directory Management and Security (ADMS) capabilities to enable organizations to shift from a fragmented to a holistic approach to identity security. One Identity is trusted and proven on a global scale ­ managing more than 500-million-plus identities for more than 11,000 organizations worldwide. For more information, visit www.oneidentity.com.
If you have any questions regarding your potential use of this material, contact:
One Identity LLC Attn: LEGAL Dept 4 Polaris Way Aliso Viejo, CA 92656
eBook-OL-Next-Gen-IAM-US-PG-73121
®

