Egress Protect

Intelligently secure emails and large files with the appropriate level of security.

Every employee has access to email. However, organizations still struggle to protect the sensitive data they share both internally and externally.
We offer easy-to-use, flexible email and file encryption that intelligently applies security in proportion to the risk of a data breach. As well as encrypting message contents and attachments, we provide total control over shared information in real time, including email recall, audits of user actions, and message restrictions to prevent mishandling - enabling organizations to:
Secure data shared by email
Encrypt personally and commercially sensitive data, including multi-factor authentication.
Stay in control
Maintain compliance with detailed audit logs, message restrictions, and real-time email recall.

Encourage user adoption
Share sensitive information from Outlook or Office 365, and when using mobile devices.
End-to-end secure communication
Free for recipients to communicate with your full subscribers.

Government and industry-certified data security
We provide government and industry-certified security and authentication for protecting email contents and attachments, including large files, in transit and at rest. We also support multi-factor authentication, customizable policy control, and access to secure information via mobile devices.
Users stay in control of their information after it has been shared by recalling emails, preventing actions such as download and copy / paste, and viewing audit logs. We are certified under Common Criteria and ISO 27001:2013.
Granted patents: USRE45,047, USRE45,046, US10,911,556 Pending patents: US17/116,345

Securing
1,000+
large organizations

Avoiding recipient pushback through flexible authentication
Authentication doesn't need to painful. Our flexible authentication techniques support your recipient's requirements by offering a range of ways to authenticate. The secure Egress portal offers traditional security by requiring recipients sign into their complimentary Egress account, while our shared secrets technique expects recipients to enter a password or unique identifier only known to them and the sender. And with one-click access, users can allow trusted partners to access sensitive emails securely without even authenticating, in turn removing friction from the process and enhancing their experience.
"Without Egress, we would have had to buy at least five different systems to meet our information sharing requirements."
HEAD OF INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY, HCA HEALTHCARE

Top five features 1 AES-256 bit encryption secures
data at rest and in transit
2 Email encrypted at the gateway
and the desktop
3 Supports single sign-on via MS
Active Directory using ADFS or other providers, such as SAML v2
4 Choice over data hosting 5 Flexible authentication
removes recipient friction
Visit www.egress.com for more features.

Email encryption and file

transfer made easy
We integrate with Microsoft Outlook

Authentication and administration UI

and Office 365 to provide one-click

email encryption, while our powerful

mobile apps allow for easy and

secure data sharing on the go.

SENDER

We also enable users to encrypt

Send

large files when shared via email,

email

bypassing the usual Exchange /

Exchange Online size limitations and removing reliance on less

EGRESS CLIENT APPS

EMAIL SERVER

secure, free alternatives. Recipients

can reply to and initiate secure

emails and file transfers to Egress

subscribers for free, keeping costs

Large les

down and encouraging user uptake.

Send email
Encrypted email

Egress Server Infrastructure
EGRESS KEY AND POLICY MANAGEMENT
Authentication and key management
EGRESS GATEWAY Encrypted email copy
ENCRYPTED DATA STORAGE

Key request and authentication
RECIPIENT
EGRESS CLIENT APPS
Secure web access

For more information please contact your account manager or call 1-800-732-0746
About Egress
Our mission is to eliminate the most complex cybersecurity challenge every organization faces: insider risk. We understand that people get hacked, make mistakes, and break the rules. To prevent these human-activated breaches, we have built the only Human Layer Security platform that defends against inbound and outbound threats. Used by the world's biggest brands, Egress is private equity backed and has offices in London, New York, and Boston.
www.egress.com | info@egress.com | EgressSoftware
© Egress Software Technologies Inc 2021. 1379-1121

