Egress Defend

Stop inbound email attacks and empower employees to become security advocates

Phishing is the entrance point in the kill chain that external agents use to gain access to your critical information. More attackers are now able to circumvent traditional email security solutions by exploiting our chief vulnerability: human behavior.
Egress Defend has been shaped by UK GCHQ to provide advanced detection capabilities that stop phishing early. Armed with intelligent technologies that evaluate context and relationships, our solution prevents more inbound cyber threats, releases key resources to focus on other threats, and empowers your employees to become cyber advocates who can identify future breaches.
Stop phishing attacks
Stronger detection emulates a cyber expert when analyzing a phishing email.

Reduce admin overheads
Free up administrator bandwidth to focus on other critical work.

Empower employees
Clear and intuitive banners offer in the moment user learning.

Avoid alert fatigue
Minimize the risk of users ignoring warnings altogether.

Emulate cyber expertise to strengthen your defense
Egress Defend reverse engineers phishing emails, breaking down and analyzing all the subcomponents for suspicious elements before delivering a final verdict. The technology investigates the email using zero trust models and evaluating content and context, looking at both positive and negative features in order to identify suspicious behavior.
This allows the technology to detect the techniques used to deceive employees rather than the deceit itself, increasing the robustness and resilience of Egress Defend in the face of new and sophisticated attacks.

Securing
7 million
users every day

Empowering users to become security advocates
Egress Defend empowers users to become your first line of defense. An intuitive interface uses a clear and obvious heat-based warning system that immediately alerts them to a threat without distracting them from their workflow. The technology also explains why the phishing email is dangerous in plain human language, offering active learning for the user that reduces reliance on time-consuming and costly training programs.
In addition, Egress Defend provides a low banner percentage, in turn gaining the trust of the user and removing the risk of banner fatigue.

Top features 1 Behavioral and linguistic
analytics
2 Social graphing technologies 3 Real-time user warnings 4 Intuitive display panels 5 Additional prompt and alerts

Visit www.egress.com for more features.

LINGUISTICAL

Sign off Body Subject Display name

The ask Emotional manipulation
Impersonation

Open link Creating a sense of urgency
Microsoft Teams

Links

Free website builder

1

TECHNICAL

Invisible text

Garbage display none to break up text

META

Sender From address

Sent from Azure
Same as the recipient

Hide real location
Microsoft IP

For more information please contact your account manager or call 1-800-732-0746

About Egress
Our vision is for a connected world in which people communicate efficiently and securely. To achieve this, we provide human layer security to protect individual users and stop breaches before they happen.

www.egress.com | info@egress.com | 1-800-732-0746 |
© Egress Software Technologies Inc 2021. 1373-1021

@EgressSoftware

