ENTITY API
Entity API, the newest member of the DarkOwl Vision API product suite, is a new way to request highly-targeted, structured information from our large collection of darknet and deep web sources,
which include Tor, I2P, Zeronet, Data Breaches, encrypted chats, IRC, and authenticated forums. With Entity API, users will experience more efficient, streamlined access to four different Entity types:
EMAIL ADDRESS AND DOMAIN ENDPOINTS See if a specific email address, or email addresses belonging to a specific domain are exposed. Sample responses include:
 Which forums or breaches specific email addresses appeared in  The hashed or plain text password that was posted with the email (if detected)
CREDIT CARD AND BIN ENDPOINTS See if a specific credit card, or cards belonging to a specific BIN are exposed. Sample responses include:
 Where a specific card or BIN is posted in each instance that it appears  The associated CVV and expiration date that appeared with the card (if detected)
IP ADDRESS AND IP RANGE ENDPOINTS See if specific IP addresses, or IPs within a given range are exposed. Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported. Sample responses include:
 The date and time DarkOwl Vision encountered the result  Contextual information for each instance discovered
CRYPTOCURRENCY ADDRESS AND TYPE ENDPOINTS See if specific cryptocurrency addresses, or all instances of particular crypto type have been exposed. Sample response include:
 A contextual text fragment provided from the original source document  The number of times we detected addresses belonging to a certain type of major cryptocurrency (i.e. Bitcoin, Monero)
www.darkowl.com

216 16th Street, Suite 700 Denver, CO 80202 303-376-6265 www.darkowl.com

ENTITY API SAMPLE USE CASES

Find out if a specific cryptocurrency address has been posted on the darknet, and if so, the location of where it appeared.

Discover whether your IPs are being discussed on the darknet, either in the context of an individual address or intersecting range.

See how many credit cards that have been issued by a specific bank are exposed on the darknet and are not expired.

Triage alerts by using password parameters to request to see only email addresses that appear with plain text passwords.

ADDITIONAL DARKOWL VISION API PRODUCTS
We are the world's leading provider of DARKINTTM, darknet intelligence and the world's largest commercially available database of darknet content. Vision API products make our data easy to access in your native environment or customer-facing platform. Entity API joins our growing
list of darknet data products: Search API and Score API.

SCORE API Calculate the darknet exposure of any organization based on the hackishness and recency of relevant information found in DarkOwl Vision. The score and associated formula inputs are returned, for each request.
www.darkowl.com

SEARCH API
Access DarkOwl Vision's data collection with native search capabilities in 47 languages. Create powerful searches using Boolean operators, regular expressions, or filters to retrieve full text results and associated metadata.

