Whitepaper
Why managing cloud entitlements is nearly impossible... and how to do it
Ermetic for CIEM

Managing cloud entitlements and least privilege with success
To reduce their cloud attack surface, organizations need deep insight into identities, entitlements and misconfigurations -- and the ability to auto-mitigate risk
Executive Summary
Your job has likely gotten more intense lately. Whether it's due to the anomaly of 2020-2021 or your organization's digital momentum, you are part of a huge trend: public cloud use is growing at a staggering pace each year, with the Infrastructure as a Service segment growing the fastest. Amid that growth, cause for concern:

75%

of cloud security failures will result from mismanagement of IAM privileges by 2023
[Source: Gartner]

With traditional perimeters gone, identities are now the largest cloud infrastructure attack surface. Recent breaches show that attackers are exploiting mismanaged IAM privileges to penetrate an organization's cloud infrastructure to reach sensitive data. To strengthen your cloud infrastructure against such risks, you need full visibility into the identities with access to your cloud resources as well as an understanding of any associated risk and the means to mitigate quickly.
Do you have the capabilities for securing, managing and investigating your cloud entitlements effectively? If not, you're not alone. A recent IDC survey sponsored by Ermetic found that 98% of respondents had at least one cloud breach in the last 18 months ­ and 83% said at least one was access related.
Ermetic is a comprehensive security platform for AWS, Azure and GCP for effective cloud infrastructure entitlement management (CIEM) and cloud security posture management (CSPM). The platform provides visibility into all identities across the full-stack lifecycle to accurately detect, measure and mitigate risk to resources. Its unique identity first approach makes it the strongest CIEM solution available, bringing to light the toxic and often hidden scenarios of identity, network and resource configuration that put your data at risk.

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

2

Using Ermetic can help you: · Visualize all entitlements, resources and access relationships, and related risks, across multicloud environments · Govern risk and manage access by privileged identities and third parties · Eliminate excessive entitlements for human and machine identities · Review and certify entitlements (across admins, developers and DevOps, as well as human and SaaS third parties) · Detect and monitor public exposure and shared resources · Generate least-privilege policies and automate remediation · Investigate access activities and anomalies · Automate just-enough and just-in-time permissions for privileged access
Ermetic also provides robust capabilities for managing your cloud security posture, including: · Manage your cloud asset inventory · Detect misconfigurations · Monitor and report on compliance with industry standards and practices
It's a responsibility, and privilege, to be vested with protecting what is likely your organization's biggest growth platform. This paper explores how to get a grip on the weakest link in securing your cloud infrastructure -- identities -- and govern them at scale with minimal effort.
The challenge - A sad state of affairs
Recent major breaches show that identities play a role in virtually every attack scenario in cloud infrastructure. Let's look at why:
· Excessive entitlements. In the interest of speed, organizations tend to over privilege identities when spinning up cloud environments
· Shift left is moving infrastructure security to teams with other priorities. DevOps teams have lots on their plate; security is not usually their top priority.
· Driving blind. Tracking entitlements and their use is hard. Cloud provider tools lack the visibility or context to give a full picture of access to resources and remediate access risk at scale and across clouds.
· Legacy PAM and IGA are limited by their on-prem DNA. In cloud infrastructure they lack granular service or resource level visibility, and cannot identify or remediate entitlement risks and excessive permissions.
Securing cloud infrastructure calls for a deep, unified view into all identities and cloud resources to understand the full stack of access entitlements and privileges, and associated risk. You must be able to secure all privileged identities and minimize their risk of being compromised. You need the means for removing excessive and risky privileges, managing access control and permissions, investigating activities and behavior, and applying least privilege across the board, throughout the cloud identity lifecycle.
There's urgency. The longer you wait to understand and undo identity risk, the greater the complexity in doing so as the number of privileged identities, exposure risks, excessive permissions and sensitive resources in your environment continue to grow.

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

3

The solution - Securing cloud infrastructure identity-first
The leading analyst groups defined several security categories that address the high importance of managing entitlements and access policy throughout the identity lifecycle. These solutions -- Cloud Infrastructure Entitlement Management ­ CIEM (Gartner), Cloud Native Application Protection Platforms ­ CNAPP (Gartner) and Cloud Infrastructure Governance ­ CIG (Forrester) ­ are expected to keep pace with evolving protection requirements for cloud-native applications, spanning virtual machines, containers and serverless workloads.
Ermetic is the first identity-first solution to offer full-stack lifecycle management of the entitlements granted by configuration of identities, compute resources, data stores and the network.
Ermetic helps security, devops and IAM practitioners:
· Gain a full, contextual view into human and machine identities to identify privileged identities and evaluate all permission configurations to understand risky or excessive privileges, and how associated compute, data and network resources map across their organization's multi cloud environment
· Leverage advanced analyses and machine-learning algorithms to address critical cloud security issues and identify identity and configuration risks and threats
· Mitigate and prevent risks at scale using automatically generated least privilege policies that integrate seamlessly with ticketing, CI/CD pipelines and IaC
How does it deploy? An agentless, API-based SaaS solution, Ermetic requires nothing to deploy and just minutes to set up. It supports the leading cloud service providers and offers deep interoperability with cloud-based identity providers. Ermetic starts aggregating data in minutes after deployment, bringing actionable information into view almost instantly.
Who can use it? No prerequisites are required. Ermetic meets the needs of cloud customers of all sizes, from large enterprises to smaller, cloud-native organizations. In cloud environments, all organizations have the same IAM challenges.
How do I use it? Ermetic gives organizations control over their cloud infrastructure that they were unable to achieve before. Ermetic empowers security, devops and IAM teams ­ even with little cloud security expertise -- to see deeply into the full cloud assets inventory and permissions relationships, govern privileged entities, detect misconfigurations and practice least privilege in modern multi-cloud environments.

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

4

Key use cases: How you can apply Ermetic
Visualize all cloud assets and relationships
The Ermetic management dashboard provides a visual overview, with click-through deep dive, into all identities in your environment and any risk caused by excessive permissions, misconfigurations, internet exposure, compliance issues and anomalies. The one-stop view helps answer: What are my top IAM risks? How many entitlements are excessive and what is the potential impact? Where are we falling short on compliance? Which identities are privileged and can be compromised? How much is my environment exposed to the outside?

Ermetic management dashboard: Get an overview of all entitlement risks, exposed resources and misconfigurations in your cross-cloud infrastructure

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

5

Prioritize and remediate risk
Ermetic provides a prioritized view into the entitlement risks in your cloud environment. It shows over-permissive identities by category, including inactive and overprivileged users, inactive and overprivileged service identities, and overprivileged groups. Start your day by reviewing one by one the access and configuration risks that Ermetic has detected, honing in by level of severity. Mitigate risk by following easy and clear remediation steps for removing excessive permissions and applying policy changes that, for example, minimize exposure to sensitive resources, remove dangerous privileges and eliminate inactive users. Ermetic works with your tech stack, including Datadog, Slack, Splunk, and email, ServiceNow and Jira, and Okta and Azure Active Directory, to seamlessly communicate on risk and deliver new least privilege policies in your IT and DevOps workflows.
Actionable views help you drill down to answer: Is the severity of the risk warranted? Has the entitlement ever been used? Can the user self-escalate to an admin role, creating unwarranted risk?

Findings view: Start your day assessing and remediating the greatest permissions risks, reducing your organization's attack surface

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

6

Govern privileged identities
Ermetic reveals all privileged identities in your cloud infrastructure by type, including user, service, third party applications and federated identities from identity providers. It enables you to understand what a privileged identity is entitled to do, including its ability to manage permissions, leak data, modify infrastructure, escalate privilege and/or carry out reconnaissance -- helping you assess if the identity is overprivileged.
Ermetic also gives details about an identity's risk factors, such as use of access keys and multi-factor authentication, and exposure of data to the internet or third parties. Ermetic enables you to govern privileged identities with efficiency and ease by monitoring them, eliminating their excessive entitlements and acting on an ongoing basis to minimize their risk of being compromised by an external -- or internal -- threat actor.

Identity intelligence view: Govern all privileged identities in your cloud infrastructure aided by deep and contextual insight into entitlements and risk

Review and certify entitlements
Ermetic lets you deep dive into entitlements of specific entities, such as IAM role, user or group to determine if the assigned access is justified and to mitigate as needed. Ermetic shows the entitlements for every identity at the most granular level of a specific resource or permission -- far beyond the capabilities available in cloud-native tools like AWS Access Advisor or Azure RBAC. Ermetic presents not just the general information for a specific entity but also a visual graph showing all the entity's permissions, color-coded for easy understanding of the extent to which permissions are excessive. You can assess the

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

7

information and, importantly, review Ermetic's findings of unnecessary or dangerous access, and execute recommended remediation steps at a click.

View entitlements by role and user, guided by color coding that shows excessive permissions by severity, filter for more detail, remediate at a click

See detailed entitlement information in list format; click on an item to drill down

Review any role to understand why Ermetic has defined an entitlement as risky or excessive

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

8

Follow easy steps for remediation
Detect and mitigate access to sensitive resources
Ermetic enables you to flag a resource -- data, compute, security or management ­as sensitive, and filter views to see which users and roles can access it, and if their permissions are excessive. It cuts through complexity to reveal network access and publicly exposed resources. It takes a multi-vectored approach to give a true assessment of risk. For example, Ermetic detects if entitlements expose a database, yet the risk is low due to adequate network configuration protection. You can assess the information and remediate at a click, updating the policy to minimize the potential risk.

Detect and monitor risk in the context of a resource exposed to the internet and the security validity of its entitlements

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

9

Apply least privilege policies and automate remediation
Ermetic analyzes data from cloud activity logs such as AWS CloudTrail to generate resourcelevel, least-privilege policy based on actual usage. Ermetic auto-remediates risky privileges and faulty configurations directly with wizards. You can also use Ermetic to enforce least privilege policies across multicloud environments. Ermetic enables you to ticket autogenerated, optimized policies and configuration fixes within your CI/CD pipelines (Jira, ServiceNow...) and generate IaC snippets in Terraform and CloudFormation, accelerating your shift-left efforts.

Remediate risky and excessive permissions with the automatically generated least-privilege access policy
Monitor and investigate anomalies and threats
Ermetic helps improve your cloud security posture by detecting anomalies through continuous risk analysis against behavioral baselines. It enables easy viewing of enriched access logs. Ermetic also detects identity-based threats, including unusual data access, privilege escalation and unexpected changes to permissions. It spots changes in login and audit settings ­ and to network configuration. Ermetic picks up on unusual reconnaissance and use of access keys across your public cloud environment. You can conduct smart searches by identity, entitlement or resource.

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

10

Detect anomalies and investigate unusual behavior, including reconnaissance, across data, network and permissions
Ermetic for cloud security posture management
Ermetic offers CIEM and robust CSPM in one, fully integrated platform. It lets you manage your cloud asset inventory and compliance from a single pane of glass­ and drill down into and auto-remediate misconfigurations. The platform tracks how your organization scores against common industry standards and best practices including: GDPR, NIST, PCI DSS, HIPAA, ISO, SOC 2, AWS Well-Architected and CIS for AWS and Azure.

Detect misconfigurations, track compliance and report on your cloud security posture improvements

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

11

Conclusion
The complexity of public cloud infrastructure makes understanding the risk to your organization extremely difficult. Ermetic is an award-winning identity first cloud security solution that offers leading cloud infrastructure entitlement management and cloud security posture management in one platform, through a single pane of glass. Organizations use Ermetic to reduce their cloud attack surface and blast radius while reducing time and costs -and amplifying cloud security expertise for security and engineering teams.
Ermetic is the only solution in its category to offer full-stack insight into entitlements across identities, compute resources, data stores and the network. This comprehensive view enables you to investigate deeply what is going on in your cloud infrastructure at any given time. Ermetic helps you secure your cloud infrastructure effectively and automate least privilege based on actual use.

Version 2 [January 2022]
©2019-2022 Ermetic Ltd. All rights reserved. Ermetic is a registered trademark of Ermetic Ltd.
www.ermetic.com

Why managing entitlements is nearly impossible

12

