WHITE PAPER
Fast-Track M&As with RadiantOne

For many enterprises, growth via mergers or acquisitions can be both a business strategy and a stumbling block. While combining forces can bring new energy and direction to an organization, the underlying integration demands can be complicated, time-consuming, and often unfinished years down the road.
"The day after the deal closes there is supposed to be one IT operating model, even though nothing about the IT operating models is integrated," says Barry Brunsman, Principal in KPMG's CIO Advisory practice.1 And if business success is declared before IT is integrated, Brunsman continues: "The consequences are not just for IT--costly, redundant systems, for example--but also impact the business's ability to understand and meet customer, supplier and regulator needs."
" Integrated identity is not just a nice-to-have anymore."2
­ Martin Smith, KuppingerCole
When sizable enterprises merge with or acquire other companies, there are some immediate decisions about who from across the newly constituted enterprise can access which resources. This is especially crucial when it involves mission-critical, enterprise-spanning applications such as ERP, Salesforce, or a healthcare EMR (electronic medical records). For companies with large, heterogeneous infrastructures--with identity and attributes from

LDAP, multiple Active Directory domains and forests, SQL, and APIs, along with a multitude of critical legacy applications that rely on those sources--figuring out how to offer access to such essential resources is a major step in the M&A process that's often bogged down by all the heterogeneity on the backend. Ensuring access across the new organization has typically been a major pain point requiring lots of time and custom coding--until now.
For such companies, successful M&As require a rationalization and integration of their identity infrastructure so they can offer SSO and secure, seamless access across essential on-prem and cloud applications. They need a way to virtualize their existing systems and integrate identities across older and newer technologies-- maintaining their investments while moving their business toward a seamlessly shared infrastructure.
Successful M&As Demand Smart Identity Integration
After M&A, the integration of IAM systems is one of the most pressing tasks for the IT team. Users old and new still need the right access to the right resources, regardless of where--or how--each identity is stored. The challenge for sizeable enterprises is that mergers and acquisitions double their identity infrastructure with a heterogeneous mix of directories, databases, and APIs, as well as key applications with specific access requirements that need to be shared.

1 Barry Brunsman, KPMG, 10/11/18: www.cio.com/article/3289350/driving-manda-integration-to-completion.html 2 Radiant Logic and the Identity Integration Imperative, 2019

Fast-Track M&As with RadiantOne

© 2021 Radiant Logic, Inc. All rights reserved.

Ensure immediate access to your ERP, Workday, Salesforce or other critical applications with RadiantOne, your M&A superpower.
Being able to seamlessly integrate identity is essential for successful mergers and acquisitions. "45-60% of the benefits from M&As are directly dependent on identity integration," Martin Smith of KuppingerCole says, while stressing that "factors relating to IT integration have been cited as the third most important reason for merger failures."3
Whatever your end target, success starts with an accurate and complete assessment of your existing identity system. No matter what your deadline to achieve a fully integrated "Future State," you need to proceed with care. Will you deploy a stop-gap short-term solution? Or opt to integrate once to lay a foundation for the future that empowers your identity management team to become a key business enabler?
Accelerate M&A Identity Integration From Months or Years to Days or Weeks
Get Quick Wins with RadiantOne, the Cornerstone of Complex Identity Environments
For agnostic applications requiring a common global view of all users, authenticating across diverse domains does not work. Such applications require a complete list of users, attributes, and groups presented in the most neutral fashion: LDAP. By virtualizing your mission-critical application infrastructure, you can get a quick win and begin your merger or acquisition with a bang by ensuring rapid
3 Radiant Logic and the Identity Integration Imperative, 2019

access to the most essential applications to all your new and existing stakeholders. No need for time-consuming and infrastructure-heavy AD consolidations--RadiantOne can access everything it needs without touching the underlying domains and forests.
The Fastest Path to M&A Integration Success
While many companies choose to provision users into new identity repositories or consolidate active directory, these approaches come with some limitations. Provisioning users into even more repositories promotes data proliferation and leads to password security risks, since users must remember more passwords--increasing help desk calls and login prompts. It also adds to continued hardware, software, licensing, and administration costs due to the dependency on redundant identity repositories, making it even more difficult to decommission these aging silos.
While consolidating your AD environment may be a corporate priority, doing it during an M&A might not serve you well, since this path eliminates the autonomy of previously separated business units. It's also a lengthy and expensive process with an average timeline of three years-- and the budgets to match. Can you afford that much time to grant access to your new users? With RadiantOne in your infrastructure, you can solve the immediate need of M&A integration, then turn to consolidating domains and forests.
For most sizable enterprises, unifying authentication and authorization into an advanced LDAP v3 directory while leveraging passwords and groups from AD is the quickest, most powerful way to fast-track an M&A.

Fast-Track M&As with RadiantOne

2

The RadiantOne Intelligent Identity Data Platform

Create a durable, reusable architecture that speeds a diverse array of identity-driven initiatives, from M&As to digital transformation. With RadiantOne, you can deliver this integrated identity in days, not months or years--regardless of how many or what kind of underlying data sources exist across all legacy organizations.

RadiantOne makes it easy to build a global list of all identities and a complete profile for each identity, giving you complete flexibility for re-modeling, transforming, and providing precise views of identity for every individual application.

R A D I A N T O N E PROVID ES IMMED IATE VALUE ACROSS THE M& A TIMELINE

PRIOR TO ACQUISITION:

DAY ONE OF NEW COMPANY:

YEARS AFTER KEY ACQUISITION:

Create an overarching view of your internal federated environment & anticipate complexities in the acquired environment.

Provide single view of identity, so it's easy to access strategic applications-- and hit the ground running.

Clean up your identity mess and quickly add and erase users--no manual processes or account duplication.

The Strategic M&A Solution Based on Advanced Identity Virtualization & Big Data Directory Services

RadiantOne M&A in Action

Day One Readiness: Preparing for Healthcare M&A Success

The healthcare industry is rapidly consolidating, with many mergers and acquisitions occurring all the time. This leads to critical issues when trying to integrate new identities into an existing infrastructure while enabling access across all stakeholders--both internal and external. Often, the merger or acquisition is already underway when IT discovers the issues of integrating identity infrastructures. But when one massive healthcare organization decided to acquire another healthcare company, its security team knew it needed a way to enable access to applications essential to each organization

for diverse stakeholders across the identity infrastructure of both two organizations. Before the deal went through, this company decided it needed to create a rationalized identity hub that hosts a global list of all users from across both organizations, as well as global profiles for each user, containing all their attributes--no matter where or how they're stored. This intelligent identity hub enabled the newly constituted company to quickly ensure secure access across all its new users, without having to consolidate the underlying data stores.

Fast-Track M&As with RadiantOne

3

Integrated Identity for a Seamless Energy Industry Acquisition
When a large energy corporation acquired another company, integrating two different identity infrastructures could have presented major challenges, yet the goal was to provide all users of the newly merged entity with seamless access to applications on Day One.
They chose RadiantOne because this agile solution creates a virtualized identity hub that allows global integration and scalability of identity, while keeping local ownership in the data sources, which is particularly desirable in an M&A situation.
With RadiantOne, the merged company achieved a unified view of its corporate directory, as well as both AD environments--one from each company. Users from across organizations are now able to authenticate and login to key applications with single sign-on, including Oracle, Okta, Global Address (AD), and HR. RadiantOne enabled both organizations to navigate the transition into a newly merged company, seamlessly and on time.

A 360-Degree View of Insurance Customers Across Many Services
One insurance giant quickly overcame the backend issues of growth by M&A using RadiantOne. This company offers services such as life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement services, asset management, and banking.
Providing a seamless customer experience across these diverse service areas was critical to the company's online strategy--but accomplishing that goal had been difficult. Many of its customers had multiple accounts across different business service areas within the company, which meant logging in with separate credentials to access each site. This complex, customer-unfriendly system made it hard to compete with digital-native providers built from the ground up to offer single sign-on to customers.
The company used RadiantOne to act as a hub for authentication, authorization, and profile preferences supporting their expanding WAM, Federation, and SSO initiatives. Now customers can sign in to one platform and enjoy a seamless experience across all the company's services.

About Radiant Logic
As unified identity market leader, Radiant Logic provides the cornerstone for complex identity architectures, creating a single source of identity truth. Radiant connects disparate legacy/cloud data sources, speeding the success of single sign-on, M&A integrations, identity governance/administration, cloud directory deployments, and hybrid/multicloud environments for Fortune 1000 and government agencies.

Learn more at radiantlogic.com

© 2021 Radiant Logic, Inc. All rights reserved.

