Forrester Total Economic ImpactTM of Flashpoint
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Overview
Organizations of all kinds need to be able to manage risk effectively. Flashpoint helps its customers transform their approach to risk with curated intelligence supporting both cyber and physical threats, allowing them to take action before the damage is done.
Flashpoint provides a suite of products and services to help organizations identify threats and reduce the impact of cyber-attacks, fraud, and physical damage. Flashpoint commissioned Forrester Consulting to conduct a Total Economic ImpactTM (TEI) study and examine the potential return on investment (ROI) enterprises may realize by deploying Flashpoint's trusted intelligence services. The purpose of this study is to provide readers with a framework to evaluate the potential financial impact of Flashpoint on their organizations.
We use [Flashpoint] to look for insider threats, detect data exposure, uncover targeting of [people] or assets and to... identify new or emerging attack techniques.
VP Security Manager, Financial Services

482% ROI
<3 Month Payback
Net Present Value of $1.9M

Key Takeaways
INCREASED SECURITY TEAM PRODUCTIVITY DELIVERED $651,499 IN TIME SAVINGS
The organization would have needed to hire a team to attempt to duplicate Flashpoint's access to and familiarity with multiple channels, markets and individuals who pose a threat to them. Flashpoint gives the existing analytical team access to a wealth of such information, curated for their needs, with no additional investment in personnel.
AVOIDED DATA BREACH COSTS DELIVERED $512,282 TO THE BOTTOM LINE
The advance notice Flashpoint provided to the organization of cybercriminals' discussions and plans allowed the firm to close vulnerabilities in their system, which saved them from data breaches that affected their competitors.
REDUCED LOSSES FROM FRAUD TOTALED $873,722 OVER THE THREE YEARS
By giving the fraud team the ability to search illicit online communities and marketplaces, Flashpoint provided access to the fraud team to search for stolen credit cards, compromised credentials, and compromised accounts. It was then able to proactively put protections in place to prevent access, saving money and providing a valuable service for their own customers.
REDUCED FALSE INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS SAVED THE ORGANIZATION $204,121 IN WASTED TIME
Because Flashpoint assists security analysts in determining whether a given claim of incursion is real, it allows employees from a variety of teams to avoid wasting their time on false crisis reports.
Unquantified Benefits
Eliminated risk of exposing company or brand to criminal activity Lowered risk of launching new products and technologies Improved safety and security for public-facing executives and other employees Increased perception of proactive approach to risk management (increasing confidence among customers, regulators, and investors) Improved security team collaboration through integration with existing tools
ROI APPROACHING 5X WITH A PAYBACK OF LESS THAN 3 MONTHS

What Flashpoint Customers Are Saying About The Solution
Flashpoint has given us clear visibility into threat actor techniques, technology and procedures which we have used to proactively put defenses in place, and it allowed us to disrupt at least one attack campaign which impacted peer financial institutions and included monetary loss. VP Security Manager, Financial Services
Great people to work with and the company are really cutting edge at what they are doing. They are always trying to improve as well which is important. Trust and Safety, Technology Platform
Best intelligence vendor on the market. Can tell your products are made by analysts, for analysts. Consistently professional in marketing, product, reports, and analysis. Cyber Threat Intelligence Analyst, Global Retailer
Great application, excellent finished products that on more than one occasion provided valuable intelligence for high-vis cyber attack Cyber Threat Analyst, Financial Services
For more information download the full Forrester Total Economic ImpactTM of Flashpoint report
ABOUT FLASHPOINT
Flashpoint is the globally trusted leader in risk intelligence for organizations that demand the fastest, most comprehensive coverage of threatening activity on the internet. From bolstering cyber and physical security, to detecting fraud and insider threats, Flashpoint partners with customers across the private and public sectors to help them rapidly identify threats and mitigate their most critical security risks. For more information, visit www.flashpoint-intel.com or follow us on Twitter at @FlashpointIntel

