OWASP SAMM
OWASP SAMM
We know you have wondered how secure your software is and how many vulnerabilities cybercriminals could exploit in it. However, going further to the source of the problem, have you ever asked yourself how well established the security practices are for the software you design, implement or manage in your company? Particularly, do you know how mature your security testing is?
Have you ever heard of OWASP SAMM?
OWASP SAMM refers to the Software Assurance Maturity Model by the Open Web Application Security Project. It is an open framework developed and maintained by corporate and academic volunteers with security expertise. SAMM, in its version 2, released at the beginning of 2020, is a prescriptive model through which companies of all types and sizes can test and decide how to optimize their software security posture. This self-assessment model is easy to use for the measurement and analysis of enterprise software security practices. In addition, it helps companies to build security strategies and programs with understandable and applicable solutions into their SDLCs (software development lifecycles), in favor of progressive improvements, specifically with regards to maturity levels. Each organization defines the maturity level it wishes to reach in every security practice according to its needs. SAMM contains 15 security practices divided into groups of three for five business functions: Governance, Design, Implementation, Verification, and Operations. In general terms, within an organization or company, the Governance business function is related to the management of software development activities. Design is connected to the definition of objectives and software creation. Implementation is associated with the construction and deployment of software (with possible defects). Verification refers to the checks and tests on the developed software. And finally, the Operations business function is related to the availability, integrity, and privacy of the running application and its data.
Copyright © 2021 Fluid Attacks. We hack your software | info@fluidattacks.com | www.fluidattacks.com

Towards mature security testing!
Within the Verification business function, we have, among two other security practices, Security Testing. There, SAMM professionals recognize the value of automated testing for its speed and adaptability and, at the same time, remind us of the importance of in-depth analysis by software security experts through slower, manual testing. They divide Security Testing into two streams: (a) Scalable Baseline and (b) Deep Understanding. Each of these can be rated according to three maturity levels, the third being the highest. At Fluid Attacks, we mainly take this section as an external reference to evaluate the maturity level of security testing. We recommend it for each company that employs tests on their systems to measure how mature, or developed, they are.
The following table presents the two streams of Security Testing with their corresponding main questions and benefits to be obtained in their three maturity levels. We took this information from the OWASP SAMM website.

Streams
Scalable Baseline
Deep Understanding

Question Benefit Question Benefit

Maturity Level 1 Maturity Level 2 Maturity Level 3

Do you scan applications with automated security testing tools?

Do you customize the automated security tools to your applications and technology stacks?

Do you integrate automated security testing into the build and deploy process?

Detection of common easy-to-find vulnerabilities

Detection of organization-specific easy-to-find [vulnerabilities]

Identification of automatically identifiable vulnerabilities in earliest possible stages

Do you manually review the security quality of selected high-risk components?

Do you perform penetration testing for your applications at regular intervals?

Detection of manually identifiable vulnerabilities in critical components

Understanding of application resilience from [a dynamic] perspective

Do you use the results of security testing to improve the development lifecycle?
Identification of manually identifiable security issues in [the] earliest possible stages

"Automated tools are effective at finding various types of vulnerabilities but can never replace expert manual review." OWASP SAMM
Copyright © 2021 Fluid Attacks. We hack your software | info@fluidattacks.com | www.fluidattacks.com

Take a closer look!
Have all these questions already been asked within your company about the security testing you use? Wouldn't you like to have tests at the highest level of maturity? Linked to this, do you know what the false positive rate of your tests is? What is their false negative rate? What about the vulnerability remediation rate within your organization? We invite you to examine this OWASP model more carefully. You can use it as a guide to determine the maturity level of the tests you use to evaluate the security of your software. Based on this, you can then make critical decisions for your company.
At Fluid Attacks, we offer you two security testing plans. With our Machine Plan, you will be at the highest level within the Scalable Baseline stream, thanks to our adaptable automatic tools and comprehensive platform (Attack Surface Manager). With our Squad Plan, which complements the previous one, you will benefit from the manual work of experts to be at the highest level in the Deep Understanding stream.

Plans
Control of the whole remediation process Continuous vulnerability reporting Attack Surface Manager (GraphQL API) Automatic SAST, DAST and SCA CI/CD DevSecOps Low rates of false positives and false negatives Higher severity and more types of vulnerabilities Manual SAST and DAST (Pentesting) Optimization of vulnerability search with AI

Machine
Effective automation

Squad
Beyond automation

Contact us and discover the benefits of implementing mature security testing!

Copyright © 2021 Fluid Attacks. We hack your software | info@fluidattacks.com | www.fluidattacks.com

