END-TO-END SECURIT Y FOR CRITICAL INFR ASTRUC TURE
Fortress guides critical enterprises to discover, prioritize, and monitor cyber and operational supply chain risk.

Who We Are
Fortress Information Security secures critical infrastructure from cybersecurity and operational risks. We perform in depth reviews of corporate structures, software and hardware bill of materials and vulnerability management while connecting information to provide a holistic risk review. Fortress is the only company that provides a simple modular solution to connect the information related to manufacturers' corporate structure and the devices they produce.

Overview of Enterprise Risk Solutions
Fortress offerings support the maturing of third-party risk management programs to enable more informed, risk-based decision making.

FOUNDATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAM

OPER ATING AND IMPROVING

ADAPTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT

INFORMATION LIBRARY

 Corporate Hygiene Cyber Risk Assessment (Supplier Provided)
 IT Asset Cyber Risk Assessment (Supplier Provided)
 OT Asset Cyber Risk Assessment (Supplier Provided)

 Corporate Hygiene Cyber Risk Assessment (Zero Trust Review)
 IT Asset Cyber Risk Assessment (Zero Trust Review)
 OT Asset Cyber Risk Assessment (Zero Trust Review)

 Hardware Bill of Materials / Software Bill of Materials
 Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG)
 Security Stack Analysis (Hosted)
 Incident Response (Hosted)

FORTRESS PLATFORM

 Baseline Fortress Platform (Analytics and Work Tracking Application)

 Vulnerability Management Module
 Legal Terms & Conditions Module
 Control Framework Mapper Module
 Evidence Tracking Module
 API for GRC

 Technical and Engineering Architecture Module
 Incident Response & Business Continuity Module

 Supplier Monitoring + Intel (Regulated Assets)
 Supplier Monitoring + Intel (Unregulated Assets)

 Remediation Tracking
 Vulnerability Management Dispositioning

 Altering & Event Response
 HBOM/SBOM Reverse Engineering
 Zero Trust Reviews

Our Customers
40,000+
In-depth vendor profiles
40%
Of the US Power Grid is Secured by Fortress
40
Industry Customers
$25B
Managed in emerging risks
1M+
External assets being actively monitored

MANAGED SECURITY SERVICES

Competitive Advantage
Fortress differentiates from other utility industry solutions by delivering an integrated suite of risk management offerings.
Asset-to-Vendor Intelligence Fortress can seamlessly connect data from asset supply chains to the vendors that underlie them
Rate Base Fortress' contracts are structured to be included in utilities' rate base (i.e., spend on Fortress is not an expense)
Vertical Focus Extreme focus on utilities subject to state and federal regulations
Combination of Software and "Last Mile" Services Highly scalable solution that can drive "white glove" results through human adjustment
Complementary Software Supply Chain Solution Highly complementary to its core supply chain risk solution

Industry Perspectives
"Fortress is very focused on utilities and that's their cutting edge.... there are [just about] no other companies that provide this service."
Director @ AEP (largest customer)
"I've heard from [colleagues at] other utilities that Fortress is a good solution... Fortress is ahead of the curve and has a big library."
Sr. Engineer @ PSEG
"There isn't anybody that can provide [description of Fortress's bundled solution set]. If there was somebody out there, we'd buy it."
CITO @ Brookfield Renewables (had not yet heard of Fortress)

Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
SBOM provides those who produce, purchase, and operate software with information that enhances their understanding of the supply chain, to provide invaluable benefits, including a potential method for tracking known and newly emerged vulnerabilities and risks.
Learn how your organization can utilize SBOMs to gain insight into the security, integrity, and authenticity of the software you integrate within your cyber supply chain at www.fortressinfosec.com/SBOM

Fortress guides critical enterprises to discover, prioritize, and monitor cyber and operational supply chain risk. Find out more at www.fortressinfosec.com.

