Technology Partner Solution Brief
Network Security Policy Orchestration for Fortinet Firewalls

Benefits to Your Business:
· Boost productivity with zero-touch
automation for FortiManager Administrative domains (ADOMs) policy changes
· Manage security policies across network
firewalls, private and public cloud through a single pane of glass
· Optimize security policies
· Reduce the attack surface for mitigation of
cyber threats

· Implement network security changes
in minutes
· Assure business continuity by minimizing
network and application downtime
· Enable continuous compliance with
enterprise and industry regulations
· Improve security, compliance and business
agility through firewall change automation

Fortinet® and Tufin® Provide Secure, Manageable and Compliant Environments
Working together to meet the demands of today's enterprise organizations for security and agility, Tufin Orchestration SuiteTM and Fortinet® FortiManager take a policy-based approach to reduce the attack surface, increase agility and enforce continuous compliance. Network operations and security teams looking to manage complex heterogeneous physical networks and hybrid cloud platforms now have a single pane of glass to visualize the entire network, enforce a unified security policy and provide advanced analysis and automation capabilities to orchestrate network security changes across the hybrid IT infrastructure.
Tufin Orchestration Suite and FortiManager
Network changes require full network and cloud visibility to provide monitoring, perform risk analysis, and meet security and compliance mandates. Tufin Orchestration Suite automates network security policy changes to ensure proper implementation end-to-end from the application level down to the firewall rule. Tufin Orchestration Suite provides network security change management and automation for FortiManager administrative domains (ADOMs) in complete alignment with Fortinet best practices. This tight integration facilitates a smooth assimilation of Fortinet firewalls across multi-vendor, heterogeneous enterprise networks.
Automatic Network Security Change Design and Verification
Tufin Orchestration Suite significantly shortens the time previously required to make network security changes by automating both design and implementation. Automation is based on cutting-edge network topology path simulation that identifies the target virtual domain (VDOM) policies of the physical Fortinet firewalls as well as any other target firewall or cloud access policy in the path. Through automated analysis a detailed change plan is suggested and, once approved, deployed to the relevant ADOM in FortiManager. This ensures a quick and accurate process to grant the required application connectivity while complying with the organization's security policy.
Gain Insight and Control over Complex Networks
Understanding network and cloud segmentation is a major challenge for IT experts. Tufin Orchestration Suite's United Security Policy (USP) segments the network by visually mapping the desired network zone-to-zone traffic flow and instantly providing detailed insights across all platforms. The USP determines which services are allowed between different network zones and zone sensitivity, restricting unauthorized east-west traffic.

www.tufin.com

Tufin Orchestration Suite Unified Security Policy ­ enables central management of network segmentation to ensure continuous compliance
Optimize Your Firewalls
Tufin Orchestration Suite optimizes enterprise firewall policies across heterogeneous environments: · Automatically identify rules and objects that are misconfigured, risky, overly permissive or unused and provide automated cleanup · Recommend paths to align firewall policies with industry best practices · Improve productivity through automated policy analysis and reporting tools · Facilitate integration with leading enterprise service management solutions, i.e., BMC Remedy and ServiceNow
Proactive Risk Analysis and Impact Simulation
Every change made to FortiManager ADOMs policies is a potential threat to data security and application availability. As part of the automated change process, Tufin Orchestration Suite checks every access rule against corporate security and internal compliance policies to identify and flag potential risks.
Continuous Regulatory Compliance with Industry Standards
Tufin Orchestration Suite provides an automated closed-loop process for enforcing, verifying and maintaining a fully documented audit trail for compliance with industry standards such as PCI DSS, SOX, GDPR and NERC CIP. Every firewall policy change is evaluated before implementation ensuring safe deployment ahead of time. In addition, manual changes that result in compliance issues are detected automatically and a resolution fix plan is suggested.

Tufin (NYSE: TUFN) simplifies management of some of the largest, most complex networks in the world, consisting of thousands of firewall and network devices and emerging hybrid cloud infrastructures. Enterprises select the company's Tufin Orchestration SuiteTM to increase agility in the face of ever-changing business demands while maintaining a robust security posture. The Tufin Orchestration Suite reduces the attack surface and meets the need for greater visibility into secure and reliable application connectivity. With over 2000 customers since its inception, Tufin's network security automation enables enterprises to implement changes in minutes instead of days, while improving their security posture and business agility. Find out more at www.tufin.com.

Fortinet (NASDAQ:FTNT) secures the largest enterprise, service provider, and government organizations around the world. Fortinet empowers its customers with intelligent, seamless protection across the expanding attack surface and the power to take on ever-increasing performance requirements of the borderless network - today and into the future. Only the Fortinet Security Fabric architecture can deliver security features without compromise to address the most critical security challenges, whether in networked, application, cloud or mobile environments. Fortinet ranks #1 in the most security appliances shipped worldwide and more than 330,000 customers trust Fortinet to protect their businesses. Learn more at http://www.fortinet.com, the Fortinet Blog, or FortiGuard Labs.

Tufin, Unified Security Policy, Tufin Orchestration Suite and the Tufin logo are trademarks of Tufin. All other product names mentioned herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

Copyright © 2021 Tufin TD20210226

