Mail Gateway

Defeat weaponized email attacks!
The State of A airs
Email is a critical communication channel making it the primary attack vector on organizations. Cybercriminals create highly targeted socially engineered attacks using increasingly sophisticated threats to enter through this route. Weaponized emails containing zero-days, exploits, and evasive malicious code continually overcome the reactive detection measures provided by Secure Email Gateways (SEG), leading to the continued rise in data breaches and ransomware incidents. A new approach is needed, focusing on proactive prevention.
GateScanner® Mail Gateway
GateScanner Mail provides a proven and award-winning solution to secure the organization's email, dramatically improving upon the results achieved by other technologies. Instead of relying on reactive detection, GateScanner leverages Content Disarm and Reconstruction (CDR) to ensures security by applying highly optimized scanning technologies including NextGen detection to pre- lter threats, and proprietary le disarm to proactively defeat undetectable attacks. In this way, GateScanner Mail prevents exploits and weaponized content that has never been seen before, including APTs and ransomware while maintaining full le delity, usability, visibility, and functionality.

Proven Technology Founded in 2013, Sasa Software successfully protects governmental agencies, defense contractors, nancial institutions, public utilities and healthcare enterprises. Independent tests demonstrate GateScanner® prevents up to 99.9% of undetectable threats* Industry Recognitions
Awards

GateScanner Mail ­ Direct integration with O365

Sender

Malicious e-mail

Disarmed e-mail

Receiver

.EML Message

GateScanner Cloud

Deconstructed .EML

GateScanner Mail o ers a seamless integration with O365 Exchange without changing the organization's MX record

GS CDR

GS CDR n

Gartner "Cool Vendors in Cyber-Physical Systems Security", Katell Thielemann, et al, 21 April 2020 Gartner Disclaimer: The GARTNER COOL VENDOR badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its aliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

Contact Us:
Headquarters: Sasa Software (CAS) Ltd. Telephone: +972-4-867-9959
Kibbutz Sasa, Israel info@sasa-software.com www.sasa-software.com
US O ce: Bavelle Technologies Sasa Software Authorized Agent 100 Eagle Rock Avenue East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA Telephone: +1-973-422-8112
sasa-cdr@bavelle.com www.bavelle.com
Singapore O ce: Sasa APAC
8 Penjuru Lane, Singapore Telephone: +65-6210-2354
contact@sasa-apac.com www.sasa-apac.com

Mail Gateway
GateScanner® Mail Gateway Highlights
Real-Time Cloud Mail Security powered by Cyren® GlobalViewTM threat intelligence Multiple Integrations full Secure Mail Gateway (SEG), Mail Transfer Agent (SMTP bridge), direct integration into O365 Exchange Scalable, Flexible deployments Highly scalable, multiple tenants/domains, available as a service, private cloud, and on-premise Proprietary Email Reconstruction according to RFC 2822 seeks deeply hidden threats and disarms the entire email message: HTML body, header, embedded elements, not just the attachments Scans Password Protected Files with a unique mechanism allowing users to supply the le passkey, enabling scanning of encrypted les Ensures emails are threat-free and protects your privacy GateScanner CDR detects and prevents advanced malicious code using highly evasive techniques, including le spoo ng, payload insertion, BASE64 encoding, and ensures privacy by cleaning email of tracking pixels/links

GateScanner® Mail Features

Sample Email Deconstruction

Standard Pro Gateway
Direct Office 365 Exchange Integration Proprietary EML Deconstruction Multiple True File-Type Identi cation Highly optimized Multi AV scans (5 7 AVs) NextGen AV detection (1 2 NGAVs) Content Disarm & Reconstruction (CDR) Password protected attachment decryption
Deep Content URL categorization (email body and inside of attachments)
Real-time IP reputation Advanced Anti-Phishing Anti-Spam + Virus Outbreak Detection Anti-Spoo ng (DKIM/DMARC/SPF) External domain blocklists (DNSBL)

One message, multiple attack vectors An email message as deconstructed by GateScanner® Mail

GateScanner® Mail as MTA

Malicious Sender e-mail

Secure Mail Gateway
Mail Relay SEG

Malicious e-mail

Mail

Disarmed Server

Disarmed

e-mail

e-mail

Exchange O G-Suite

Receiver

On prem. Private Cloud As a Service

The SEG routes messages to Gate Scanner Mail via SMTP redirection. GateScanner Mail deconstructs the .EML and applies CDR on every embedded element. The disarmed message is forwarded to the organization's Email Servers

GateScanner Mail Speci cations
Scanning* performance (one GateScanner Mail Front-End with Full CDR): Up to 100,000 emails/hour with 7 GS Engines (50,000/hr with 4 GSE, 20,000/hr with 2 GSE) Based on emails with 15% attachments (1/3 Small < 1MB, 1/3 Medium 1-5MB, 1/3 Large 5-15MB) Deployment Options: As a Service, Private Cloud, On-Premise GateScanner Mail Front-End: Installed on a Windows Server (2012 R2 onwards) Requirements: 8 vCores, 16 GB RAM, 600 GB HDD (SSD recommended) GateScanner Engines: Supplied as a precon gured virtual appliance based on Windows IoT Requirements: 4 vCores, 8 GB RAM, 60 GB SSD Supported le-types: Supports full CDR for hundreds of le type combinations, including the entire suite of MS O ce, PDF, media les (images, audio, video), AutoCad, Archives, PST, .EML, installation les, XML, HTML, other text les, medical imaging les (DICOM), and customized les

*Speci cation and features subject to change without prior notice. Scanning performance varies according to scanning pro les, le size/structure, and hardware used. Security results depend on the scanning pro le used.

