AAPPII
REST API
Integrating applications with Content Disarm and Reconstruction
The Challenge
Receiving les from third-party applications such as secure le transfers, web portals, browser isolation solutions, and other services introduce risks since le-based attacks including Zero Days, Exploits, and other weaponized content can evade detection-based technologies. These risks are compounded since the applications are often considered trusted content delivery channels, enabling malicious les to be saved into the organization's datacenters, potentially initiating critical IT security incidents.
The Solution
GateScanner Content Disarm and Reconstruction (CDR/Sanitization) ensures security by applying highly optimized scanning technologies including NextGen detection to pre- lter known threats, and proprietary le disarm to prevent undetectable attacks. In this way, GateScanner CDR protects against exploits and weaponized content that has never been seen before, while maintaining full le delity, visibility, and usability.

Proven Technology
Founded in 2013, Sasa Software successfully protects governmental agencies, defense contractors, nancial institutions, public utilities and
healthcare enterprises.
Independent tests demonstrate GateScanner® prevents up to 99.9% of undetectable threats*
Industry Recognitions

GateScanner® REST API content security for applications
GateScanner REST API is a SaaS capable, robust and exible platform that enables IT administrators, MSSPs, and ISVs to seamlessly integrate Sasa Software's CDR technology with existing applications. Files are securely sent to a scalable grid of GateScanner CDR Engines and the disarmed le is returned. The integration is performed using an industry-standard REST API, together with an advanced web-based management application, allowing the connection of multiple applications while ensuring full control of security policies, and achieving visibility of the scan results.

Awards

GateScanner® API connecting to third party applications

Untrusted Source

CDR

Trusted Destination

Web Portal

GS Updates

3rd. Party Applications

Secure File Transfer/ Malicious Files File Sharing / Vault

Browser Isolation

Disarmed Files

GS API
REST, WCF,
Comand Line

End Point Isolation
Your App.

GS CDR 1

GS CDR n

Corporate Network

User

Data Center

Network Share

Gartner "Cool Vendors in Cyber-Physical Systems Security", Katell Thielemann, et al, 21 April 2020 Gartner Disclaimer: The GARTNER COOL VENDOR badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its aliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

Contact Us:
Headquarters: Sasa Software (CAS) Ltd. Telephone: +972-4-867-9959
Kibbutz Sasa, Israel info@sasa-software.com www.sasa-software.com
US O ce: Bavelle Technologies Sasa Software Authorized Agent 100 Eagle Rock Avenue East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA Telephone: +1-973-422-8112
sasa-cdr@bavelle.com www.bavelle.com
Singapore O ce: Sasa APAC
8 Penjuru Lane, Singapore Telephone: +65-6210-2354
contact@sasa-apac.com www.sasa-apac.com

REST API

Gate Scanner® CDR Scanning Features

Sample Deployments

File Deconstruction
Since today's threats are deeply hidden, complex les are disassembled into individually embedded elements

Suspicious Website Malicious Files

Safe Rendering Disarmed Files
User

Deep Threat Scans

Embedded elements are deeply scanned using highly optimized

Multi-AV scans, NextGen detection, Multiple True Type identi cation,

dramatically increasing detection rates, and preventing le spoo ng.

File and macro signatures are veri ed to con rm a trusted source.

AAPPII

File Disarm & Reconstruction
Files are disarmed ("sanitized") removing embedded elements, scripts,

GateScanner Cloud

macros, links and undergo structural conversions, creating a neutralized

(harmless) copy of the le

External Tools Integrations

Optionally integrate external security solutions, such as Sandboxes/Dynamic

Inspection, Next-Gen AVs, etc.

GS CDR

GS CDR n

GateScanner engine s

Gate Scanner® REST API Technical Features

Browser Isolation

Fully SaaS capable for delivery as a consumption based service
(GB of data/month)
REST API service designed for rapid integration of multiple applications

Users access the internet using a remote browsing isolation solution (RBI). Downloaded les are disarmed with GateScanner CDR and saved to the user's endpoint.

Extreme capacity Processes thousands of concurrent requests,

serving multiple third party applications in parallel, capable of handling

large and complex les including installation packages

Highly scalable w/load balancing Easily and highly scalable
without system interruptions, built-in Active/Active load balancing
Customized scanning policies Dedicated scanning policies

Users

Malicious Files

Web Portal

Disarmed Files

can be customized with speci c quotas and security pro les attached to each application

Corporate Data Center

Central Management Web-based administration with detailed
scan analytics, interfaces with SIEM/Syslog, automated updates

GS API

Security Highly con gurable to allow seamless integration with complex

network topologies with strict security requirements

Operation modes Synchronous and asynchronous

Documentation Includes rich documentation and code samples

GS CDR 1 GS CDR n

GateScanner® REST API Speci cations
Delivery Options: As a Service, Private Cloud, On-Prem GateScanner REST API Service: Installed on a
Windows server (2012 R2 onwards)
Requirements: 4 vCores, 8GB RAM, 250 GB HD
(SSD Recommended)
GateScanner Engine(s): Supplied as a pre-con gured
secured virtual/physical based on Windows 10 IoT
Requirements per engine: 4 vCores, 8GB RAM, 60 GB SSD Scanning Performance: Up to 15Gb/hour per engine Supported File-types: Supports full CDR for hundreds of
le type combinations, including the entire suite of MS O ce, PDF, media les (images, audio, video), AutoCad, Archives, PST, .EML, installation les, XML, HTML, other text les, medical imaging les (DICOM), and customized les

Document Uploads
Users upload les to a web portal. Files are sent to GS via a REST API. The disarmed les are saved in the
organization's datacenter.
Robust Dashboard with full scan analytics

*Speci cation and features subject to change without prior notice. Scanning performance varies according to scanning pro les, le size/structure, and hardware used. Security results depend on the scanning pro le used.

