Desktop
Enabling compliance and security for removable media
The Challenge: Portable Media
Usage of portable media (USB drives, CD/DVDs) presents a critical risk, as using them bypasses IT security layers, and potentially introduces malicious les directly into the organization. These inherent risks cause organizations to disallow their use and led to the creation of compliance requirements such as the Energy Sector NERC CIP 003-7, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations NEI 08-09, and NIST 800-53 (PR.PT-2) for cybersecurity protection of critical infrastructures.
The Solution: GateScanner® Desktop
GateScanner Desktop enables endpoint users to conveniently and securely access les from portable devices, directly at their workstations. The solution prevents media and le-based threats, while enforcing organizational security policies, ensuring visibility, and achieving compliance. GateScanner Desktop is triggered by the insertion of a device, guiding users through an import/export process to save trusted and veri ed les to the endpoint, or other network destinations.
The Technology: GateScanner® CDR
GateScanner Desktop leverages Content Disarm and Reconstruction (CDR/Sanitization) ensuring proactive protection against malicious content by applying highly optimized scanning technologies including NextGen detection to pre- lter known threats, and proprietary le disarm to prevent undetectable attacks, protecting against exploits and weaponized content that has never been seen before, while maintaining full le delity, visibility, and usability.

Proven Technology Founded in 2013, Sasa Software successfully protects governmental agencies, defense contractors, nancial institutions, public utilities and healthcare enterprises. Independent tests demonstrate GateScanner® prevents up to 99.9% of undetectable threats* Industry Recognitions
Awards

GateScanner® Desktop ­ sample work ow

USB User

Disarmed Files
Malicious Files End Users

USB
Redacon (DLP)

GS CDR 1 GS CDR n GateScanner engine(s)

Network Share

Users insert portable (USB) devices at the endpoint, activating a desktop application, which sends the les to a networked GateScanner service. The disarmed les are then saved to a network location. Files can be securely exported using Redaction (DLP) policies.

Gartner "Cool Vendors in Cyber-Physical Systems Security", Katell Thielemann, et al, 21 April 2020 Gartner Disclaimer: The GARTNER COOL VENDOR badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its aliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

Contact Us:
Headquarters: Sasa Software (CAS) Ltd. Telephone: +972-4-867-9959
Kibbutz Sasa, Israel info@sasa-software.com www.sasa-software.com
US O ce: Bavelle Technologies Sasa Software Authorized Agent 100 Eagle Rock Avenue East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA Telephone: +1-973-422-8112
sasa-cdr@bavelle.com www.bavelle.com
Singapore O ce: Sasa APAC
8 Penjuru Lane, Singapore Telephone: +65-6210-2354
contact@sasa-apac.com www.sasa-apac.com

Desktop

Solution Highlights

File Vault integration & multiple destinations: The secured les can be saved into an encrypted le vault, or sent to multiple
destinations ­ the user's endpoint, home drive, network share, and more
File redaction (DLP): Security for outgoing les via deep content search and replace, metadata removal, policy enforcement and
ensures les are threat free with GateScanner CDR
Privacy & GDPR compliance: All les are scanned o ine without an internet connection and information is securely wiped after every
operation, so can never be leaked externally
Encrypted media and les: Automatic scanning of password-protected les, hardware encrypted media, supports BitLocker encryption Uninterrupted productivity: The user's endpoint is not impacted since scanning is processed by the GateScanner Desktop service,
with an option for automated download and email noti cation on scan completion
Customizable work ows, Multi-lingual support: Scanning steps can be fully customized according to the organizational
security policy, with an option for admin approval of les submitted for processing. Solutions supports a multi-lingual user interface with customizable graphics
User and scan policy management: Scanning pro les are adjustable according to user/group policies. Multiple authentication
options are available including Active Directory (AD) integration with Single Sign On (SSO), local authentication, and more

Authentication

Choose operation: Scan les/DLP

Select les

Scan in progress

Scan results

Download/Share les

GateScanner Desktop Speci cations
Delivery Options: Private Cloud, On-Prem GateScanner Desktop service: Installed on a Windows server (2012 R2 onwards) Requirements: 4 vCores, 8GB RAM, 250 GB HD (SSD Recommended) GateScanner Engine(s): Supplied as a pre-con gured secured virtual/physical based on Windows 10 IoT Requirements per engine: 4 vCores, 8GB RAM, 60 GB SSD Scanning Performance: Up to 15Gb/hour per engine. Supported File-types: Supports full CDR for hundreds of le type combinations, including the entire suite of MS O ce, PDF, media les
(images, audio, video), AutoCad, Archives, PST, .EML, installation les, XML, HTML, other text les, medical imaging les (DICOM), and customized les
*Speci cation and features subject to change without prior notice. Scanning performance varies according to scanning pro les, le size/structure, and hardware used. Security results depend on the scanning pro le used.

