DICOM Portal

Solution Brief

Ensure the security of medical imaging les The Challenge

Proven Technology
Founded in 2013, Sasa Software successfully protects governmental agencies, defense contractors, nancial institutions, public utilities and
healthcare enterprises.
Independent tests demonstrate GateScanner® prevents up to 99.9% of undetectable threats*
Industry Recognitions

Receiving DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) les including MRI and CT scans from patients is critical for every hospital and healthcare provider yet introduces multiple risks. The DICOM protocol was created long before Cybersecurity and patient privacy was a concern and has known vulnerabilities[+]. These are compounded by the complex structure of DICOM which prevents e ective inspection by anti-malware technologies, enabling the injection of malicious code into PACS systems (Picture Archiving and Communication Systems). Furthermore, imaging results delivered by portable media (CD/DVD, USB) could have been created on a compromised computer, and the media often includes an executable "viewer" that can be malicious. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a requirement to limit unnecessary access of patients to clinics, and the handling of physical media can be a source for disease transmission. Ironically, while many organizations restrict the usage of portable devices, tens of thousands of DICOM discs are used daily across the world, bypassing the organization's security layers, and potentially compromising their healthcare systems.

Awards

The Solution

GateScanner DICOM Portal provides patients a secure self-service web-based portal to remotely upload DICOM les obtained from third party medical facilities while validating patient data integrity and assessing security risks using the proprietary GateScanner DICOM Protector technology. The solution disassembles the complex DICOM le into its embedded elements including metadata and pixel data which enables scanning with highly optimized Multi-AV engines and NextGen detection technologies to seek deeply hidden threats. DICOM Protector prevents media-based attacks by copying the les from the devices while separating the data from the viewer software. The solution also prevents accidental or intentional patient misuse by comparing the content of the DICOM le to the identity of the user uploading it. These multiple capabilities ensure the security of the les prior to saving into the organization's PACS.
Gartner "Cool Vendors in Cyber-Physical Systems Security", Katell Thielemann, et al, 21 April 2020 Gartner Disclaimer: The GARTNER COOL VENDOR badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its aliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

Contact Us:
Headquarters: Sasa Software (CAS) Ltd. Telephone: +972-4-867-9959
Kibbutz Sasa, Israel info@sasa-software.com www.sasa-software.com
US O ce: Bavelle Technologies Sasa Software Authorized Agent 100 Eagle Rock Avenue East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA Telephone: +1-973-422-8112
sasa-cdr@bavelle.com www.bavelle.com
Singapore O ce: Sasa APAC
8 Penjuru Lane, Singapore Telephone: +65-6210-2354
contact@sasa-apac.com www.sasa-apac.com

Internet

DMZ

DICOM Portal
Hospital Network

End User

Front End

Back End

PACS System

USB CD/DVD

Select Files & Upload

DICOM files

DICOM Files

DICOM Portal

DICOM Protector

GS CDR 1 GS CDR n GateScanner engine(s)
DICOM Portal work ow
Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is used to authenticate a pre-registered patient. Patients use a browser-based web portal to upload the DICOM le. The DICOM data is validated by the GateScanner DICOM Protector by applying deep threat detection, and patient identify validation. After a successful scan, the DICOM data is saved into the organization's PACS.

GateScanner DICOM Portal features
Simple and friendly web-based user interface. Reduces workloads on clinic sta and reduces healthcare risks by enabling a remote upload of scan results and limiting unnecessary patient visits at healthcare centers. Secure and encrypted DICOM le transfers from the end-user's computers to the organization's PACS. Proprietary DICOM-speci c deep threat inspection with Multi-AV scans and Next-Gen detection. Ensures the identity of the authenticated user corresponds to the DICOM le data and inspects compatibility with the organization's PACs system. Full visibility and compliance via activity logs and reports. Deployed on-prem or private-cloud for best performances and security.

Self-service web portal

Robust admin dashboard with full scan analytics

* For an analysis of DICOM vulnerabilities please refer to the Sasa Software website * Security results depend on scanning pro le used. Speci cation and features subject to change without prior notice.

