SOLUTION OVERVIEW

State Of A airs
We live in a world of increasingly sophisticated cyber threats. APTs, ransomware and other malware continually evade detection technologies, while increasing overhead and false positives. With the increase of security layers, hackers target the organization's trusted content channels: Over 90% of malware originates from emails, browsing, portable media and B2B le transfers. Within the organization, users inevitably open malicious les and links, leading to IT security incidents.
The New Paradigm
Prevention means every le and email must be treated as suspicious. GateScanner® Content Disarm and Reconstruction (CDR/Sanitization) ensures security by transforming les into a safe, neutralized and harmless copy you can trust. GateScanner® CDR prevents advanced undetectable malicious code attacks, including APTs and ransomware, while maintaining full le delity, visibility and usability.
Gate Scanner® Content Disarm and Reconstruction (CDR) Process

Proven Technology
Founded in 2013, Sasa Software successfully protects governmental agencies, defense contractors, nancial institutions, public utilities and
healthcare enterprises.
Independent tests demonstrate GateScanner® prevents up to 99.9% of undetectable threats*
Industry Recognitions

SUSPICIOUS FILE

FILE DECONSTRUCTION

DEEP THREAT SCAN

FILE RECONSTRUCTION

DISARMED FILE

Awards

MULTI TRUE TYPE IDENTIFICATION MULTI AV SCANS
NEXT GEN. DETECTION

EXTERNAL TOOLS INTERGATION

KEEPS TRUSTED CODE
REMOVES POTENTIALLY MALICIOUS ELEMENTS
FILE RESTRUCTURING (SINGLE/MULTI PASS)

GateScanner® CDR Features:
Deconstruction
Disassembles complex les to seek deeply hidden threats
Deep Threat Scans
Dramatically Increases threat detection rates and prevents le spoo ng using multiple AV scans, Next Gen detection (AI), multiple True Type identi cation, and le signature veri cation
Content Disarm
Removes ("Sanitizes") potentially malicious elements, scripts, macros, links, while keeping trusted content and restructuring les to disrupt the integrity of deeply hidden exploits and malicious code. Single pass restructuring maximizes compatibility and multi-pass restructuring maximizes security
Reconstruction
Reconstructs into a harmless le, maintaining full delity, visibility and usability
File Redaction (DLP)
Security for outgoing les via content search and replace, metadata removal, reformatting, and policy enforcement
External Tools Integrations
Integrates with external security solutions, such as Sandboxes, Next-Gen AVs
Gartner "Cool Vendors in Cyber-Physical Systems Security", Katell Thielemann, et al, 21 April 2020 Gartner Disclaimer: The GARTNER COOL VENDOR badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its aliates and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

Contact Us:
Headquarters: Sasa Software (CAS) Ltd. Telephone: +972-4-867-9959
Kibbutz Sasa, Israel info@sasa-software.com www.sasa-software.com
US O ce: Bavelle Technologies Sasa Software Authorized Agent 100 Eagle Rock Avenue East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA Telephone: +1-973-422-8112
sasa-cdr@bavelle.com www.bavelle.com
Singapore O ce: Sasa APAC
8 Penjuru Lane, Singapore Telephone: +65-6210-2354
contact@sasa-apac.com www.sasa-apac.com

Threat prevention for les from portable media (USB, CD/DVD), at a centralized location

SOLUTION OVERVIEW

Threat prevention for les from portable media at the user's desktop

Threat prevention for SMTP Mail

Integrates GateScanner®

AAPPII

with third party

applications

Automated threat prevention for le transfers, network separation, and API-less integrations

Web based, SaaS capable, multi-route threat prevention: Document uploads, le transfers, cloud vault, lightweight kiosk

Deep scanning of medical imaging les
DICOM Protector

Deep threat scans for WIN Appliances / Computers

A optical gateway (diode) for unidirectional le transfers, integrating seamlessly with GateScanner® solutions

GateScanner® Bene ts
Prevents advanced undetectable threats, Zero-Days, APTs and ransomware Prevents threats capable of evading dynamic analysis / EDR solutions Stops threats at the perimeter, reducing exposure to employee negligence Integrates with and controls the ow of existing and future security technologies Robust reporting systems based on MS-SQL data-warehouse. Centrally managed and updated, integrates with SIEM / Syslog, Con gurable scanning policies Highly scalable, active/active grid of engines, tailored to the customer's needs Automatically opens and deep-scans password protected les Modular components allow integration with highly secure network topologies

GateScanner® Speci cations
GateScanner® Connector(s):
A front end running GateScanner® solution Available in HA, multiple front-ends to support large scale enterprises Installed as a service on a Windows Server ( 2012R2 and above) Server requirements: 4 vCores, 8 GB RAM, 250 GB HDD (SSD recommended)
GateScanner® Engine(s):
Contains the scanning technology Highly secure pre-con gured physical/virtual appliance based on Windows Embedded / Windows IoT. Virtual appliance requirements/each: 4 vCores, 8 GB RAM, 60 GB SSD Scanning Performance: Up to 20Gb/hour. 5Mb MS-O ce document: Up to 30 sec (full CDR). Supported le-types: Supports full CDR for hundreds of le type combinations, including the entire suite of MS O ce, PDF, media les (images, audio, video), AutoCad, Hanword (HWP), Archives, PST, .EML, installation les, XML, HTML, other text les, medical imaging les (DICOM), and customized les
Deployment options:
On premise, private cloud (AWS, Azure), as a service (supported products)

*Speci cation and features subject to change without prior notice. Scanning performance varies according to scanning pro les, les size/structure, and hardware used. Security results depend on scanning pro le used.

