GEORGIA'S CYBER INDUSTRY
With more than 115 cybersecurity companies generating over $5 billion annually, Georgia is one of America's elite cybersecurity hubs, ranking No. 3 in the nation for information and data security.
TALENT, EDUCATION & RESEARCH
Georgia leads the nation in the development of cyber talent and research, with 8 nationally-ranked cyber institutes with CAE-R or CAE-DC designations.

AUGUSTA UNIVERSITY CYBER INSTITUTE The $2.5 million facility enables innovative research and education, with degrees in advanced cyber defender, medical informatics, cyberterrorism, and a master's of information security management.
COLUMBUS STATE UNIVERSITY The TSYS Cybersecurity Center is a $2.5 million facility offering cyber innovation and interdisciplinary research. Degrees include computer science with a cybersecurity track, a master's in cybersecurity management, and a nationally-recognized master's in applied computer science with a cybersecurity concentration.
GEORGIA CRYPTOLOGIC CENTER This $286 million complex provides cryptologic professionals with state-of-the-art tools to conduct signals intelligence operations, train the cryptologic workforce, and enable global communications.
GEORGIA CYBER CENTER In the largest single investment by any state government, Georgia provided $100 million to build the new 332,000 square-foot Georgia Cyber Center in Augusta. The Center is the first of its kind - combining public/private collaboration among academia, state and federal government, law enforcement, the U.S. Army and the private sector.
GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY The research group at GSU's Evidence-Based Cyber Security Center seeks to produce empirical evidence and provide systematic reviews of existing empirical research regarding the potential effect of existing cybersecurity policies and tools in preventing the development and progression of cyber-dependent crimes.

GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 12 labs and cyber centers allow 500+ scientists, faculty and students to conduct cyber research across computing, engineering, public policy, and education. The Online Master of Science in Cybersecurity allows students anywhere to get certified in one of three tracks: Information Security, Energy Systems, and Policy.
KENNESAW STATE UNIVERSITY The Center for Information Security Education has the state's only undergraduate security degree programs with 300+ graduates to date. It also hosts the annual Conference on Cybersecurity Education, Research and Practice and the Journal of Cybersecurity Education, Research and Practice.
NEXUS DEGREE OFFERS DEEP CYBERSECURITY INDUSTRY KNOWLEDGE The University System of Georgia's nexus degree combines academic coursework and experiential learning in high-demand career fields including cybersecurity. The curriculum is designed in collaboration with industry experts to ensure it meets specific present and future job requirements.
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH GEORGIA UNG's Center for Cyber Operations Education prepares students for military and civilian careers in cybersecurity, cyber operations and defenses. The institute hosts the National Cyber Warrior Academy (NCWA) GenCyber summer camp, a two-week residential cyber academy for area high school students.

Georgia Department of Economic Development | Technology Square | 75 Fifth Street, NW, Suite 1200, Atlanta, GA 30308 - USA | Georgia.org/Cyber

GEORGIA CYBER CENTER
The largest single investment in a state-owned cybersecurity facility in the nation to date, the $100 million Georgia Cyber Center is a unique public/private collaboration among academia, state and federal government, law enforcement, the U.S. Army and the private sector, and the first of its kind. With two adjacent buildings totaling 332,000 square feet, the Georgia Cyber Center is designed to meet the growing need for cybersecurity talent in Georgia, the nation and across the globe. The Hull McKnight building features a cutting-edge cyber range, a 390-seat auditorium, an incubator/accelerator to foster innovation and entrepreneurship and classrooms. The Shaffer MacCartney Building serves as a hub for technology startups and includes leasable space available to firms and organizations supporting the state's cybersecurity ecosystem. Much of the building is build-to-suit space, which is largely unfinished and will be customized to suit tenants' specifications.
There's a government commitment, there's an education commitment, there's a military commitment, there's a corporate commitment -- all coalescing right around the Fort Gordon cyber district in Augusta, Georgia. If you want to come into a place that's growing with you, this is the place to be.
­ Tom Patterson, Chief Trust Officer of Unisys
ARMY CYBER COMMAND IN AUGUSTA
Effective 2020, Fort Gordon in Augusta is home to the headquarters of the U.S. Army Cyber Command, the central post for all of the U.S. Army's cybersecurity operations. More than 4,700 high-tech military personnel will be relocated to Fort Gordon in Augusta as part of the growth within military intelligence, cyber, and the NSA ­ with the Army spending an estimated $2.1 billion in facility improvements by 2020. The Cyber Center of Excellence is the Army's epicenter for the training and development of cyber warriors. NSA Georgia also operates a 600,000 square-foot cryptologic center at Fort Gordon.
We have a great partner in the state of Georgia, and this supports what we're trying to build as far as a world-class military operations facility at Fort Gordon, Georgia.
­ Brigadier General Joe Hartman, Deputy Commanding General of the Army Joint Force Headquarters Cyber
Georgia Department of Economic Development | Technology Square | 75 Fifth Street, NW, Suite 1200, Atlanta, GA 30308 - USA | Georgia.org/Cyber

