GOSECURE TITAN INBOX DETECTION & RESPONSE (IDR)
Empower users to send suspicious email for professional evaluation and handling --right from the inbox.

SAFEGUARD THE INBOX
In-house security teams are overwhelmed monitoring email security filters and employee submissions of suspicious messages that may be potential:

 Phishing attacks  Social engineering threats  Business Email Compromise

 Brand forgery  Advanced malware

GoSecure Titan Inbox Detection & Response (IDR) makes users part of the solution, while offering the support that in-house teams need to address the onslaught of email threats today. With easy submission from inside the inbox, users get both automated scanning and professional human threat evaluation of questionable messages from the experienced team at GoSecure.
 GoSecure Titan IDR is automatically deployed into Office 365 Outlook applications for desktop, web and mobile--showing an icon on the toolbar for desktop and web app users.
 Employee submits a suspicious email and then the message is instantly routed through machine learning filters, as well as expert human analysis, to determine the intent.
 Within minutes, users get an update on the email they submitted which is either returned or permanently removed. A clear status is provided to the user regarding the submission.
 Email deemed to have malicious or threatening content will be globally removed from the organization's domain.
 The in-house security team receives full visibility, with options for notifications, custom reports and summary charts through the GoSecure Titan IDR portal-- without the burden of interacting with the messages themselves.
 Experienced human analysts from the GoSecure Active Response Center (ARC) become an extension of the in-house team, determining the threat level of messages identified as malicious and handling incidents 24/7.

GET FAST ANSWERS ON QUESTIONABLE EMAIL
Experts estimate that nearly a third of users open phishing email and more than 10% of those users will click on a link or open an attachment.
GoSecure Titan Inbox Detection & Response (IDR) give users a faster, easier way to take the guesswork out of questionable messages. With the ever-present GoSecure Titan IDR icon in the toolbar of the Outlook application, users are reminded of the support available for any message they find even a little suspicious.
Messages are reviewed through both machine learning filters and expert human analysis so that users can be reassured the message is safe upon return --or that it will be removed if there is a threat.
When a message status is returned to the user within minutes, their security awareness is reinforced and the organization is better protected against breaches. Plus, the in-house security team gets full visibility to the entire process without lifting a finger.
GoSecure Titan IDR provides fast answers and support to address questionable email.

HOW DOES GOSECURE TITAN INBOX DETECTION & RESPONSE WORK?
1. Employee notices suspicious email and clicks the GoSecure Titan IDR button to submit for review. 2. Email is automatically quarantined and routed through the GoSecure Active Response Center. 3. GoSecure automated machine learning engines investigate the suspicious email. 4. Human security experts conduct a further review on inconclusive messages through a multi-faceted analysis. 5. Within minutes a status message is returned, either the message is verified or removed. 6. Real-time reporting gives the in-house security team clear visibility into the incident and its resolution.

To learn more, watch this Inbox Detection and Response Overview Video: https://www.gosecure.net/inbox-detection-response/overview-video/

LEARN MORE www.gosecure.net/inbox-detection-response
CONTACT US www.gosecure.net/sales-contact
1-855-893-5428

ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. GoSecure Titan MDR offers a detection to mitigation speed of less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted, skilled and experienced teams in the industry.
To learn more, please visit: https://www.gosecure.net.

