®

GOSECURE TITAN® MANAGED SECURITY INFORMATION AND EVENT MANAGEMENT (SIEM)
Centralize, correlate, maintain and report on security health data from applications, systems and devices with managed support options.

CENTRALIZE YOUR SECURITY
GoSecure Titan® Managed Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) services combine comprehensive visibility across IT environments within a centralized tool with easy-to-understand dashboards and robust reporting.
GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM focuses on rooting out malicious behavior and limiting alert fatigue. Our systems have use cases built on the MITRE ATT&CK framework. We have a library of more than 300 pre-built use cases.

COLLECT

ANALYZE

RESPOND

IMPROVE

REASONS TO CONSIDER GOSECURE TITAN MANAGED SIEM
· Working with a single tool to manage, filter and analyze data from numerous sources improves the ability to potentially spot threats and traces of malicious activity that may have previously gone undetected.
· Speeds up the time to verify potential issues by applying use cases to identify high-risk, high-confidence threats and limit false positives.
· Can help organizations meet compliance monitoring and metrics requirements--with the ability to define parameters for logging and storage of data as well as provide extensive reporting capabilities.
· Complements GoSecure Titan® Managed Detection & Response (MDR) which offers active threat hunting capabilities. When combined, these services deliver strong protection against advanced threats through a blend of automation and human support that becomes an extension of the in-house security team.
Organizations can choose from GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM Essentials and GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM Enterprise.

WHAT IS MANAGED SIEM?
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools gather, process and analyze information from systems, applications and devices to generate security health data, as well as incident and event information, such as alerts.
SIEM spans entire environments, collects mass amounts of data and looks for issues and errors through the logs it records.
GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM delivers centralized security health information without the burden on the in-house team of developing and maintaining the SIEM tools.
GoSecure combines best-inclass tools with proprietary threat intelligence built over years of operational experience, and research from the team at GoSecure Titan Labs, to help clients shape a platform that delivers the right intelligence for them with fewer false positives.

®
MANAGED SIEM PACKAGES
SIEM Platform & Maintenance Support -- Support for LogPoint tool deployment, as well as updates and maintenance to ensure availability.
Basic Security Package -- Up to 100 pre-built use cases and many more reports with a dashboard pre-defined by GoSecure. File Information Monitoring (FIM) is also available with both plans (fees apply).
Self-Service Console (Multi-User Access) -- See information and events in real-time, with user access maintained and reviewed continuously.
Quarterly Meeting -- Quarterly meeting to discuss and review change requests, as well as use cases questions.
Yearly Service Review -- Once a year license, configuration and services are reviewed to ensure SIEM is optimized for use.
Client Runbook -- A custom client runbook is created and maintained by GoSecure, determining which actions will be taken based on the defined use cases. Experienced GoSecure professionals become an extension of the inhouse security team to help triage alerts and identify threats.
Triaged Managed Use Cases -- High-confidence and high-risk use cases are monitored and managed by GoSecure. All recommendations and actions are detailed within the client runbook to ensure tracking, documentation and standard procedures are followed.
Monthly Meeting -- Monthly meeting to discuss and review security events and improve SIEM use cases.
Change Requests -- During business hours, change requests can be made for the dashboard, use cases and reports. These requests allow analysts and managers to remove false positives and adjust the contextual data of the SIEM.
On-Demand Solution Support Available -- On-demand support constitutes any custom feature, request or investigation.

GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM
Essentials
    
Optional

GoSecure Titan Managed SIEM
Enterprise
    




Optional

LEARN MORE
www.gosecure.net/managed-siem
CONTACT US
www.gosecure.net/sales-contact 1-855-893-5428

ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. GoSecure Titan MDR offers a detection to mitigation speed of less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted and skilled teams in the industry. To learn more, please visit: https://www.gosecure.net.

