GoSecure Helps the World's Largest Manufacturer and Distributor Of Thread And Sewing Supplies Answer The Question ­ Are We Secure?

THE CHALLENGE
Coats Group PLC was building a new cybersecurity practice and needed both tools and expertise to answer the question "Are We Secure?"
THE SOLUTION
By installing a suite of GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response (MDR) capabilities, Coats saw immediate results including the detection and quarantine of three systems containing malware that had previously gone undetected.
WHY GOSECURE
The GoSecure Titan platform offers visibility and control that helps Coats cybersecurity leadership "sleep better at night" knowing systems are more secure.

CASE STUDY
COATS GROUP PLC
When Benjamin Corll, VP of Cybersecurity and Data Protection / Chief Information Security Officer joined the Coats Group PLC he faced a significant challenge ­ answer the question "Are we Secure?"
The Coats Group is the world's largest manufacturer and distributor of sewing thread and supplies, and the second-largest manufacturer of zips and fasteners. Founded in 1755 in Paisley, Scotland, this global firm has more than 17,000 employees in 50 countries today.
Starting from scratch, Corll knew he would have to invest in both people and tools to build a security practice, while being cost conscious and getting the most skilled help possible. He also knew he wanted to implement a foundation for his new organization built on a Managed Detection and Response (MDR) solution suite. Having worked with GoSecure at a previous company, Corll knew where to turn for the experienced people and effective tools he needed at Coats.
Coats implemented a GoSecure Titan MDR solution with 6,500 endpoints, and support for up to 8,500, that includes:
· GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) · GoSecure Titan Network Detection and Response (NDR) · GoSecure Titan Next Generation Anti-Virus (NGAV)
Like many GoSecure clients, Coats started with their endpoints by deploying the EDR solution. Appliances were installed at their hub sites. They quickly detected and quarantined three systems with malware that previous software had not detected. Within the next half-year, Corll added NGAV to their solutions.

"After many conversations during the review process with different team leaders, I realized how focused and knowledgeable the (GoSecure) team was and that our organization would not just be a number, but a partner with a name."
Benjamin Corll
VP of Cybersecurity and Data Protection / Chief Information Security Officer

COATS GROUP PLC
Industry: Manufacturing
Employees: 17,000 World-wide
GoSecure Solutions: · GoSecure Titan Managed
Detection and Response (MDR) · GoSecure Titan Endpoint
Detection and Response (EDR) · GoSecure Titan Network
Detection and Response (NDR) · GoSecure Titan Next
Generation Anti-Virus (NGAV)

The results of GoSecure's solutions have been obvious to Corll. "The great visibility and control helps me sleep better at night with peace of mind that we have broad visibility and control - and that 6,500 of our systems are secure."
For Coats Group, a long-term relationship with GoSecure means having the experienced professionals, proven security tools and customer-focused support needed to deliver for their organization. "I have been most impressed with the continued growth and improvement of the GoSecure portfolio with enhanced functionality and capabilities. Plus, GoSecure people understand the entire enhanced suite," remarked Corll.
ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. Our Titan MDR is designed to detect and respond in less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted, skilled and experienced teams in the industry.
To learn more, please visit:https://www.gosecure.net.

Leading North American Law Firm McInnes Cooper Counts on Trusted Partner GoSecure to Deliver Managed Solutions from Networks to Endpoints

CASE STUDY
MCINNES COOPER

THE CHALLENGE
McInnes Cooper had some protection but needed a complete solution for a growing organization. They wanted a partner with a clear playbook of when and how the issues would be managed by the vendor and when response would be handled in-house. They also wanted a partner with a skilled, responsive team of experienced professionals they could trust.
THE SOLUTION
GoSecure installed their GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response (MDR) solution side by side with a current security vendor to demonstrate potential performance improvements. GoSecure caught and resolved a potential infection ­ just as the current vendor was sending an alert and making recommendations for McInnes Cooper to proceed.
WHY GOSECURE
GoSecure delivers the GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response (MDR) difference backed by a team that is a true partner. The GoSecure Titan MDR solution suite provides McInnes Cooper coverage of networks and endpoints, with a game plan of what GoSecure can resolve on their behalf. Plus, the GoSecure team is trusted and inspires confidence in their expertise.

Scott Howell has a lot on his plate as the Managing Director of Technology and Information Services at McInnes Cooper, one of the 25 biggest business law firms in Canada. The firm, originally founded in the 1800s, has more than 400 employees in six locations in key economic centers across Atlantic Canada - including nearly 200 lawyers. And the firm recently launched a new professional services affiliate, MC Advisory. This growing organization keeps Howell's team of about 14 professionals ­ spanning help desk, systems operations, mobility, software development, process improvement and library/research ­ very busy.
Before engaging GoSecure, McInnes Cooper had the help of an outside security vendor. The coverage primarily supported their main Halifax site, with no significant protection for the other locations. When the time came to expand their protection across all locations - and ensure that mobile users were protected - Howell wanted to evaluate his options, including GoSecure.
Howell met with the GoSecure team at an event and was impressed with the knowledge and experience that backs up the technology solutions offered by the organization. "Being able to talk to those individuals and understand the caliber of resources at the disposal of that group was a big swaying point to us," said Howell.
Full coverage of their networks was vitally important to McInnes Cooper and one of the biggest initial selling points to Howell was the GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tool. "The same protection we had for our brick-and-mortar buildings, protecting our internet, was now protecting all of our devices - no matter where they went. GoSecure was one of the first we found providing that type of a solution. Since we have a fairly mobile workforce with lots of laptops, knowing we have that same level of protection and control over our assets was a big component to what made GoSecure solutions stand out."

"When I asked about the potentially infected machine GoSecure told me `We covered you first, before even telling you that you have a problem.' And that specific event made us sign up the next day."
Scott Howell
Managing Director of Technology and Information Services

MCINNES COOPER
Industry: Legal
Employees: 400 employees total, nearly 200 lawyers
GoSecure Solutions: · GoSecure Titan Managed Detection
and Response (MDR) · GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection
and Response (EDR) · GoSecure Titan Network Detection
and Response (NDR)

And to Howell, the proof was in the performance. They tested the GoSecure Titan MDR solution against their current security software. One day, an alert came in from the current vendor about a potentially infected machine with some recommendations for the McInnes Cooper team to address the situation. Howell shortly learned that the GoSecure solution had already found the problem, and then GoSecure both isolated and cleaned the machine in question. In essence, GoSecure resolved the potential problem before Howell even knew it was an issue.
With GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response (MDR), the McInnes Cooper team can focus on other things while trusting that they are protected. Howell feels that this has provided an advantage in the relationship. "It's important to make sure you have a clear line of what you want to do internally and what you want the vendor to do. You will see the value and can have full trust both ways that things are happening the right way."
In the end, both the tools and the team keep McInnes Cooper a satisfied and long-term client at GoSecure. "With GoSecure, we've developed a long-term relationship that turned into a partnership, and I don't say that lightly," said Howell. "They don't always do that."
ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. Our Titan MDR is designed to detect and respond in less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted, skilled and experienced teams in the industry.
To learn more, please visit:https://www.gosecure.net.

GoSecure `Answers the Call' for Nova Scotia Pension Services

CASE STUDY
NOVA SCOTIA PENSION SERVICES

THE CHALLENGE
In 2013, NS Pension became an independent, non-profit organization and moved its IT infrastructure out of the government in just 4 months. Within a couple years, NS Pension realized more was needed from a security perspective. "We were looking for a partner, not just a vendor," said Tottman.
THE SOLUTION
GoSecure Titan® managed security solutions, including GoSecure Titan Managed Firewall and GoSecure Titan Managed Detection & Response, combined with GoSecure Advisory Services including the Cyber Security Assessment, to deliver a seamless experience with support that acts as an extension of the in-house team and provides insights to help NS Pension improve its security posture.
WHY GOSECURE
NS Pension wanted a partner that could be counted on to deliver best-in-class service and who would answer when called. NS Pension also needed the expertise to help identify improvement opportunities and help shape its developing IT infrastructure to ensure protection of the information entrusted to it by the pension plan members.

In 2013, Nova Scotia Pension Services Corporation (NS Pension) was created as an independent, non-profit corporation. Its predecessor had been a special operating agency of the Nova Scotia government. NS Pension set up its own networks and infrastructure to support 50 employees in just four months.
NS Pension now provides investment, pension administration and compliance services for more than 74,000 active members, retirees and survivors--with assets totaling more than $13 billion. The organization has also grown to 73 employees with plans to add more staff in the coming year.
By 2015, it was clear to Alan Tottman, Director of Information Management and Technology, that he needed more value from NS Pension's cybersecurity programs and vendors. An experienced, international IT professional, Tottman had been with NS Pension since 2009 and now led a small team of professionals who would have to manage their own infrastructure. This meant that the service from their security partner would be even more critical than the product offerings.
"What we really looked for was the service piece--someone who answered the call when we phoned," said Tottman. "If I phone GoSecure, they answer. The response is quick. It's a collaborative conversation."
NS Pension found GoSecure at an industry conference and started with a oneyear term to see if the value would materialize. The relationship has grown over the past six years according to Tottman, "As we've become a more mature client, we've added more layers to our security onion."
Moving to managed security services with GoSecure, especially GoSecure Titan® Managed Firewall, made a significant and noticeable impact for NS Pension right away.
"Before, the time between reporting and changes to the firewall was ridiculously long. So, we made the decision to move the management of the firewall to GoSecure. So those things happen instantly now," said Tottman.
With the managed service, GoSecure acts as an extension of the in-house team, quickly and expertly handling the day-to-day events. "Things are detected. Things are identified. Things are quarantined. Rules are changed," noted Tottman. "For us, that's been the big change. It's not been blind panic every time something happens. It's just dealt with like business as usual."

"It was a great move (to GoSecure Titan Managed Firewall). We have seen a decline in hassle. I don't get calls at 2a.m. anymore--because they get dealt with."
Alan Tottman
Director of Information Management and Technology

NOVA SCOTIA PENSION SERVICES CORPORATION (NS PENSION)
Industry: Financial Services , Non-profit Corporation
Employees: 73 Employees, serving 74,000 active members
GoSecure Solutions: · GoSecure Titan Managed Detection
and Response (MDR) · GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection
and Response (EDR) · GoSecure Titan Managed Firewall · Cyber Security Assessment · Advisory Services

NS Pension's multiple managed security services with GoSecure work in concert. For example, the GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection and Response component of the GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response solution has delivered added benefits.
"Not only has the endpoint solution helped us with cybersecurity, but it's also helped us with some of our network design and in understanding our networks. It's quite a useful tool."
And the experts within the GoSecure Advisory Services team have also delivered insights to help NS Pension make strategic changes in recent years. In 2017, GoSecure conducted a Cyber Security Assessment (CSA) for Tottman.
"It was incredibly useful, done in a sympathetic way," said Tottman. "Of course, it generated two years of work, but it got us to where we are--decent firewall, decent switches, decent integrations with endpoints--all those pieces. If we had not done that security assessment, I don't think we would have gotten to where we need to be."
NS Pension has also been re-shaping its IT infrastructure vendor relationships and GoSecure has helped in an advisory role. NS Pension has transitioned to a new structure that according to Tottman has been "massively advantageous."
"We can do an awful lot more with an awful lot less," Tottman commented. "And it seamlessly integrates with everything that GoSecure is doing for us."
And Tottman feels strongly that relationships matter between vendors. "GoSecure plays ball happily with our other vendors. When two vendors talk to each other and get things done, it makes it quite easy for us."
The team at GoSecure keeps NS Pension coming back year after year. "The one thing that we have prized all the way is the level of service we receive," observed Tottman. "It's about the people, sitting there every single day, working really hard and answering the phone. We've stayed because we are getting that service."

ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. GoSecure Titan MDR offers a detection to mitigation speed of less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted and skilled teams in the industry. To learn more, please visit:https://www.gosecure.net.

