®

GOSECURE TITAN® MANAGED DETECTION & RESPONSE
Defend against breaches with an industry-leading 15-minute response time from detection to mitigation

TRUST IN YOUR SECURITY
GoSecure Titan® Managed Detection & Response (MDR) helps protect against breaches while optimizing security resources for organizations who are concerned about the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity threats like ransomware.
IDENTIFY Find threats across endpoints, networks, email and the web through automated monitoring and human threat hunting. Identifies sophisticated potential attacks like hidden malware and negligent/ malicious insiders.
MITIGATE Get best-in-class detection to response time of 15 minutes, with the GoSecure Active Response Center (ARC) delivering swift mitigation for managed clients to stop threats before they spread.
REPORT GoSecure ARC professionals become an extension of the inhouse security team for managed clients, handling threats as determined by the custom playbook--24/7, 365 days a year and reporting back on the results.
THE GOSECURE TITAN MDR ADVANTAGE
· GoSecure Titan MDR identifies, blocks and reports potential breaches, often before the organization even knows there is an issue.
· GoSecure's blend of automation and expert human analysis provides an advantage over other tools in the market--and fewer false positives.
· Continuous 24/7 automated monitoring and human managed support protects organizations around the clock--because threats can happen at any time.
· The GoSecure Titan MDR Portal centralizes client security health data and ticketing into a single pane of glass.
· GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection & Response (EDR) and GoSecure Titan Next Generation Antivirus (NGAV) are included with every MDR package protecting organizations and users at any location--24/7/365.
· Available GoSecure Titan Inbox Detection & Response (IDR) offers industryleading anti-phishing capabilities at the user-level.
· Optional GoSecure Titan Network Detection & Response (NDR) adds visibility into the cloud, virtual and on-site networks.

COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGE
GoSecure Titan Managed Detection & Response (MDR) services combine endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single managed detection and response service to deliver a rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touches customers endpoints and networks with both automated monitoring tools and human threat hunting capabilities.
Comprehensive coverage is vital, just ask GoSecure client law firm McInnes Cooper. "The same protection we had for our brick-and-mortar buildings, protecting our internet, was now protecting all of our devices - no matter where they went. GoSecure was one of the first we found providing that type of a solution."
- Scott Howell, Managing Director of Technology and Information Services.
A MAJOR PLAYER IN MDR
GoSecure Titan MDR was named a Major Player by IDC in the Managed Detection & Response Marketscape Report 2021. This multi-dimensional review of MDR capabilities recognized GoSecure Titan MDR for flexibility, tailored client playbooks, integrated anti-phishing options and emergency services capabilities.
Read the full report on the gosecure.net website to learn more.

GOSECURE TITAN MDR OFFERS FLEXIBLE BUNDLES FOR EVERY ORGANIZATION
GoSecure Titan MDR is designed to be flexible enough to offer organizations the right level of protection for their needs. Choose from bundles that offer GoSecure Titan best-in-class automated tools or full-time GoSecure Active Response Center (ARC) support and threat remediation.

®

GoSecure

Titan MDR

Essentials

GoSecure Titan Endpoint Detection & Response-- automate

monitoring and mitigation activities to stop threats before they can spread with support from expert analysts who address potential threats



as an extension of the in-house security team.

GoSecure Titan Next Generation Antivirus -- monitors and blocks

potential breaches across browsers, email, document readers and more­ as well as scans memory for malicious activities such as fileless attacks--



flagging activities based on organization-specific defined rules.

Multi-Dimensional Threat Intelligence -- every GoSecure MDR client

benefits from the threat intelligence data gathered by our proprietary



multi-dimensional research.

24/7/365 Service Monitoring and Auto Response -- GoSecure ensures availability, handling updates and upgrades to MDR tools year-round.



GoSecure Titan Network Detection & Response -- visibility into the cloud, virtual and on-site networks, along with support from the skilled threat hunters at GoSecure.

Proactive Threat Hunting and Response Services -- GoSecure Active Response Center reviews alerts, delivers proactive threat hunting and swift mitigation for attacks--often before the client knows there was a threat.

GoSecure Titan Inbox Detection & Response -- anti-phishing solution that empowers users to send suspicious email for professional evaluation and response.

Optional

GoSecure Titan Insider Threat Detection & Response -- monitor, detect, deter and respond to accidental, negligent or malicious activity inside organizations.

Optional

In-Memory Analysis -- scans live memory, reverse engineers suspicious code and then predicts malicious intent.

GoSecure Titan MDR Enterprise


  

Optional
Optional Optional

GoSecure Titan MDR
Elite


  


Optional Optional

®

GOSECURE TITAN® PLATFORM
Expanded protection, broad visibility and scalability in a managed detection and response platform

When you are responsible for managing security, your priority is to deploy a trusted platform that responds to threats in real-time.
PROOF OF PROTECTION
The GoSecure Titan® platform enables organizations to see and respond to potential threats. With early warnings, the GoSecure Titan platform can block many attacks before they can impact an organization. And with the GoSecure Titan platform, expert human threat hunters help ensure that threats are addressed quickly and effectively to protect the organization from significant damage. This activity is all visible within the platform and views are customizable with options based on the depth of detail and type of information needed by your organization.
CENTRALIZED PROTECTION
The GoSecure Titan platform centralizes critical data from GoSecure Titan Managed Detection and Response (MDR) services into a single pane of glass. Our platform not only provides broad visibility and better protection--checking for three times more unique event types than the industry standard--but it also allows organizations to detect more threats, mitigate faster and lower overall security costs.
EXPANDED PROTECTION
With the GoSecure Titan platform, organizations experience expanded protection in a complete MDR solution. Together, NextGen Antivirus (NGAV) and Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) deliver fullspectrum endpoint detection to expose new malware, ransomware, and fileless threats that circumvent legacy endpoint solutions. In addition, it includes robust network detection and response (NDR) capabilities, combining full packet capture, intrusion detection, log capture, and sandboxing, which provides detailed visibility into suspicious behavior on the network. The platform extends detection across the entire path of a threat.

NO MORE ALERT FATIGUE
· The core of the GoSecure Titan platform offers easy to understand alerts that predict malicious intent with a level of certainty.
· Alerts and dashboards ensure that efforts to address threats can be prioritized more effectively.
· GoSecure Titan's automated capabilities contain and terminate known threats before they can execute.
· Human threat hunters will be able to focus on more advanced attacks requiring immediate attention.
Comprehensive coverage matters, just ask Scott Howell at leading North American law Firm McInnes Cooper. "When I asked about the potentially infected machine GoSecure told me `We covered you first, before even telling you that you have a problem.' And that specific event made us sign up the next day."
- Scott Howell, Managing Director of Technology and Information Services.

BUILT FOR SCALE
The GoSecure Titan platform is built to scale with you. It is developed on a data lake back-end and is delivered entirely in the Cloud. The platform consists of three main components: · Endpoint Sensors · Collectors · Real-time Threat Intelligence
With threat intelligence backed by the team at GoSecure Titan Labs, the platform is regularly updated with detection capabilities to address the latest attack vectors.
CUSTOMIZATION WITH A CLICK
The GoSecure Titan dashboard is completely customizable to your specific use cases. Share critical information with executives. Dive deep into the data for technical analysis. See all the details of the attacks that have been prevented and understand the health of your endpoints ­ in a simple, understandable view.

LEARN MORE
www.gosecure.net/titan-managed-detection-response www.gosecure.net/gosecure-titan-platform
CONTACT US
www.gosecure.net/sales-contact 1-855-893-5428

ABOUT GOSECURE
GoSecure is a recognized cybersecurity leader and innovator, pioneering the integration of endpoint, network, and email threat detection into a single Managed Detection and Response service. The GoSecure Titan platform delivers predictive multi-vector detection, prevention, and response to counter modern cyber threats. GoSecure Titan MDR offers a detection to mitigation speed of less than 15 minutes, delivering rapid response and active mitigation services that directly touch the customers' network and endpoints. For over 10 years, GoSecure has been helping customers better understand their security gaps and improve their organizational risk and security maturity through MDR and Advisory Services solutions delivered by one of the most trusted and skilled teams in the industry. To learn more, please visit: https://www.gosecure.net.

