Guide to ROI: Red Canary MDR + Defender
Secure your business. And protect your bottom line.

COMPLETE ENDPOINT SECURITY MEETS SUPERCHARGED DETECTION

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Simple deployment and migration
Red Canary makes it easy to get started with Defender. We help you with onboarding, product training, licensing assistance, strategic planning, and security posture consulting.

Red Canary SOC
Quickly solve skills and budget gaps
We act as your complete in-house SOC team, or augment your existing operations to help you cut alert noise and respond more effectively to threats.

Security Team
Stay ahead of evolving threats
We identify the most critical threats and provide detailed investigation and analysis. When we detect a new threat in our customer base, we provide herd immunity within minutes.

The result? We're able to find the things your team and other products can't.

96% fewer alerts

Reduced analyst burnout

90% increase in productivity

Better security efficiency

3.8x increase in confirmed detections
# OF ENDPOINTS: 20,0000

Our incident handlers are engaged in hundreds of incident responses each year and use that experience to continuously update behavior-based detection from endpoint telemetry. Their analytic rules significantly extend Defender's threat detection coverage, quadrupling the number of confirmed threats detected.
10x faster response
Faster detection matters because it reduces the impact on your organization and customers. Red Canary customers boast a 75% reduction in realized risk per endpoint over time, a statistic made possible by a significant investment in adversary behavior research.
Automation and custom playbooks
Expert-guided response actions when you need it
Identity threat dimension visibility for more complete response
Save on cost. But make leaps and bounds in confidence.
· We protect your business reputation 24/7 by detecting ransomware and other threats early
· We do the hard stuff so you can operate more efficiently on a daily basis
· We support you with best practices, general counsel, and proactive outreach for new threats
Red Canary MDR + Defender
Ready to see how these results translate to your environment?
Request a demo at redcanary.com/microsoft

