Technology / Software Industry
Customer Case Study
Company Meets PCI Secure Coding Training Compliance

The Company

Vulnerabilities Reduced by 80%

A software technology company with many Fortune 500s as their customers store over 41 million records of end-user data wanted a training solution to meet PCI secure coding requirements. They needed to reduce vulnerabilities in software to protect their applications and, ultimately, their end-users data.

The Challenge
The company wanted to show the effectiveness of the training solution so they could justify to engineering leadership that time away from development was worthwhile, show the ROI for their internal security budget, and measure the effectiveness for C-level leadership.
Before taking any training, the company gave a secure coding assessment to all developers. The assessment had multiple questions around finding a simple OWASP Top 10 vulnerability in a code snippet and fixing it. The assessment consisted of two SQL Injection vulnerabilities, one XML External Entity (XXE) vulnerability and one CrossSite Scripting vulnerability. In addition, there was a simple question on Insecure Deserialization. The developers were not given the answers, only their final score.
The developers averaged a total score of 19% and found & fixed an average of just 14% of the vulnerabilities. 58% of developers could not find and fix just one vulnerability successfully.

www.HackEDU.com | info@HackEDU.com

Technology / Software Industry
The Solution
The company decided to put all their software developers through hands-on secure coding training. They chose HackEDU because of the interactive secure development training, which has been proven to help developers lower the risk of vulnerabilities. Going through all the lessons, the developers improved their ability to write secure software, boosted their understanding of how systems are hacked, and decreased the time to solve those security-related issues. The training also helped the company meet their PCI secure coding training compliance requirements.
Results & Benefits
The developers were given another assessment after the training and approximately nine months after the initial assessment. This time the average score was 85%, up from just 19%, and the developers found 81% of the vulnerabilities. 100% of the developers found and fixed a majority of the vulnerabilities in the assessment. The developers improved their ability to find and fix vulnerabilities in code and improved by an average of 452%. Not only did the developers improve their ability to code securely, but they also thought the way the lessons were presented was exciting and enlightening which enticed them to complete the courses.
HackEDU is the Secure Coding Training company. Our hands-on training, which replicates a real-world scenario, can be accessed anytime, anywhere via a web browser. Our offensive + defensive lessons, science-based approach, and DevSecOps toolchain integrations help to motivate developers, keep them engaged, and effectively learn and retain secure coding principles.
www.HackEDU.com | info@HackEDU.com

