HivePro Uni5
Threat Exposure Management Solution that proactively reduces an organization's attack surface before it gets exploited

In the current world scenario, we have a vast Threat Vector Landscape with Attackers using various Techniques or Attacks to exploit a vulnerability. This may lead to compromised Assets. There could be several Attack Paths an attacker could take to achieve their objectives. So, we need to move away from trying to "fix everything" to fix "what matters most."
Vulnerability Management in the last decade has seen incremental innovation to solve the problem of Vulnerability Fatigue. Today, customers consume multiple siloed risk ratings of vulnerabilities via various tools like Vulnerability Management, Vulnerability Prioritization, Breach and Attack Simulation and Pen Testing. They are unable to find one single console which represents the actual risk.

HivePro Uni5 solves this problem by providing a unified view of the true risk of all vulnerabilities and helping fix it. Our platform uses a combination of asset criticality, external threat context, internal compensatory control, and patch intelligence to give customers a unique view of the actual threat that a vulnerability presents.

Attacks

Vulnerability

Assets

! !

Asset Criticality
External Threat Context
Internal Compensatory Control
Patch Intelligence

Uni5

Unified View of Vulnerability Risk
PATCH NOW

HivePro Uni5 addresses fundamentals of Threat Exposure Management. If an organization wants to understand their exposure to a threat or an attack, we categorize which assets have potential exposure, which vulnerabilities on the assets could be exploited, and help orchestrate fixing of those vulnerabilities.

Scenarios and Benefits
New Vulnerability is released & Vulnerability Fatigue
- Prioritized remediation in a single dashboard. Fix what matters. - 360° view of Pre-breach Attack Surface for faster response
within days - Threats contextualized to your business based on your Assets,
Vulnerabilities and Threat Risk. Focus on Vulnerabilities that matter to your organization
Hive Pro

SCHEDULED LATER

SCHEDULED LATER

PATCH NOW
wwww.Hwiwve.HPirvoe.pcroom.co/Hmi/vHeiPverPorUonUin5i5

RUN SCAN

PATCH NOW

Threat Advisory is released
- Automated process with actionable threat advisories - Take quick action in hours rather than days - Single Console with option to Run Scan or Initiate Patching on a
ticket directly

Pre-empting Attack Surface ­ Pre-breach Analysis
- HivePro Uni5 captures your existing IT environment and performs pre-breach analysis by deploying a Machine Learning model to your internal environment.
- HivePro Uni5 proactively determines Attack Surface of Breach and Techniques for Exposure to mitigate attacks

Identify

Assess

Analyze

Communicate Remediate

Vulnerability Life Cycle Visibility & Analytics
- Track Service Levels at each stage with real time Analytics - Single Console to Identify and onboard Assets with the ability to
Create, Track and Close Service tickets

Features
Contextualised VPT Using external context of asset
criticality, threat, actors and exploits, Uni5 gives prioritization
of threat by the vulnerability.

Asset Criticality Classification
Automatic segregation of assets into various groups, based on their nature and criticality.

Patch Intelligence & Remediation
Patch intelligence helps customers understand better which patches exists and how
they can go about patching systems which is done through
automated remediation orchestration

Actionable Intelligence
Uni5 gives actionable advisories on threats, actors and attacks which allows customers to
understand their risk exposure on assets and impact and help remediate it through a single screen

Get in Touch
Address:
1551 McCarthy Blvd. Suite 212 Milpitas, CA 95035 USA

Email: info@hivepro.com

Website: www.hivepro.com

Vulnerability Life Cycle Using patent pending framework to help customer manage service levels of identifying prioritizing tracking and eventual remediation
of vulnerabilities.
BAS For Compensatory Control
Uni5 takes into consideration the efficacy of mitigating control to increase or reduce the risk of vulnerabilities based on their ability to protect or let the attack
go through
Hive Pro

