DATASHEET

Hunters SOC Platform
Empower security teams to automatically identify and respond to incidents that matter, helping teams mitigate real threats faster and more reliably than SIEMs.

Today, SOCs waste time with an overwhelming amount of telemetry data to correlate, tools to manage, and false positives to chase as data is siloed across SIEMs, security and IT products, enterprise data and threat intelligence. This creates a lot of heavy lifting to keep all the data, signals and alerts from across the attack surface organized and mapped.
Meanwhile, security teams are constantly updating their own playbooks to keep up with the methodologies attackers are using. To investigate behavior, security teams need to stitch everything together, a nearly impossible task with data, staffing and expanding attack surface challenges. This means security teams are challenged to separate the "noise" from real incidents, making the attack surface more vulnerable and leaving the business at risk.
The Hunters SOC platform empowers security teams to automatically identify and respond to incidents that matter across their entire attack surface, at a predictable cost. Through built-in detection engineering, data correlation, and automatic investigation, we help teams overcome volume, complexity, and false positives. Hunters mitigates real threats faster and more reliably than SIEMs, ultimately reducing customers' overall security risk.

Key Outcomes
Cover the Entire Attack Surface Vendor-agnostic data ingestion and normalization across all data from your security and IT tools, at a predictable cost.
Empower Security Teams Built-in detection engineering, data correlation, and automatic investigation to overcome volume, complexity, and false positives.
Minimize Security Risk Reduce overall security risk and compliance exposure by mitigating real threats faster and more reliably than SIEMs.

Key SOC Platform Solutions
SIEM Replacement
Move beyond SIEM and adopt a platform approach. Streamline your security program while achieving the automation and scale needed to accelerate how you detect, investigate and respond to threats.
Security Analytics | XDR
Apply out-of-the-box security analytics with automatic investigations and scoring to spot high fidelity threat leads from siloed systems, link them together and transform them into actionable insights.
Threat Hunting
Threat hunters can implement and automate their hunting thesis with a consolidated threat hunting platform. Pick up on weak signals and hunt across your environment with full visibility and a single interface.

"I recommend Hunters to every CISO because they're probably experiencing the same things as I am: they're probably using the same tools as we are, and I recognize the challenges behind that. I know that Hunters can unify all the data generated from those tools and make sense out of it to help us in our fight with the intruders."
Mario Duarte, VP Security

How it works
Unparalleled Data Ingest
Using cloud connectors to pipe into existing security tools, or directly connecting to SIEM at unmatched speeds, Hunters SOC Platform supports unlimited ingest of logs, events and telemetry from dozens of data sources on-premises and in the cloud.
Built-in Detection
Hunters SOC Platform extracts both raw data and alerts from existing security data using a stream processing analytics technology which enables near real-time processing and complex analytics. Threat signal extraction is guided by Hunters' TTP-based detections.
Auto-Investigation
Hunters SOC Platform runs automatic investigations on behalf of security analysts, driven by graph-based correlation, pulling all related information associated with suspicious activity and enriching it with further context.

Dynamic Prioritization
Once there is enough context around threat signals and alerts, machine learning-based algorithms are used to dynamically score them, allowing for prioritization and quick triage. As more data is ingested and analyzed, insights emerge impacting scoring and prioritization.
Correlated Attack Stories
Correlated signals and alerts for a given incident are automatically discovered and packaged into a contextual view of an attack story, including critical information like affected entities, users, and activities, providing analysts with a clear understanding of the attack and its impact.
Response and Remediation
With Hunters, Incident Response is accelerated as Attack Stories are streamlined into containment and remediation actions through automation, using SOAR tools and workflows to reduce the attackers' dwell time.

Security and IT Products
SIEM

GET A HUNTERS SOC PLATFORM DEMO

Seamless Ingestion

Detection Engine

Automatic Investigation

Prioritized Correlated Events and Attack Stories
Alerts

Workflows and SOAR

Other Enterprise
Data
Threat Intel feeds
*Optional

*Data Lake

TTPs and IOC enrichment

Analysts consume attack insights

Key Integrations
Integrations span security products, data connectors, and workflows.

Data Platform Partner:

SEE ALL OF OUR INTEGRATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS.

WWW.HUNTERS.AI
COPYRIGHT © 2022 HUNTERS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

