EBOOK
IDENTITY SECURITY: WHY IT MATTERS AND WHY NOW
FEARLESSLY FORWARD.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
2

1 HOW WE GOT HERE
A look back at how the security perimeter disappeared.
2 ALL ROADS LEAD TO IDENTITY
Follow an attacker to understand why identity is the new battleground.
3 THE IDENTITY PARADOX: SPEED VS. SECURITY
Consider the challenges that come with protecting identities.
4 ACHIEVE ZERO TRUST THROUGH IDENTITY SECURITY
Understand the key elements of this modern approach to security.
5 A ROADMAP FOR SUCCESS
Kickstart your Identity Security strategy with a best-practice framework.
Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

1 HOW WE GOT HERE
Security used to be simpler
It used to be that your employees worked primarily on site or connected through a virtual private network (VPN). They accessed your servers and applications, which were also on site, from corporate-owned PCs. Fewer people needed access to critical business resources and, as long as you had built a strong security perimeter, the bad guys were kept out and your company was secure.
Digital transformation takes hold
To gain competitive advantage, companies began rapidly adopting cloud-based technologies and services, to deliver compelling digital experiences for their customers. We also witnessed increasing support for distributed workforces. These trends all accelerated tremendously in 2020 when only organizations with a strong digital business prospered.

3

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

The perimeter becomes obsolete
With digital innovation came newfound technologies and users, putting increasing strain on the integrity of perimeter-based security approaches. Each and every customer, remote worker, device and application now potentially needed an entry point to your most sensitive systems. Topping it off, we entered a worldwide pandemic and, in an instant, had to scramble to connect home offices, support new devices and bring new collaboration tools online as quickly as possible. With thousands of entry points, your network perimeter became even more porous and cyber attackers knew it.

Number of Attacks Exploded

400%
Rise in Reported Cyber Attacks FBI, April 2020

667%
Rise in Spear Phishing Attacks Barracuda, March 2020

800%
Rise in Ransomware Attacks MonsterCloud, August 2020

4

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

A NEW CHAPTER UNFOLDS
As digital transformation, growth in cloud, SaaS and remote work have opened new doors for business, it has also left the door wide open for attackers. And while cyber attacks are inevitable, negative business impact is not. The remainder of this eBook outlines how you can embrace a model of identity-centric security to drive resilience in this new threat landscape.
5

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

2 ALL ROADS LEAD TO IDENTITY
In today's hybrid and mutli-cloud world, the perimeter has dissolved. Traditional network security barriers are no longer enough, and all identities can be an attack path to an organization's most valuable assets.

Any Identity
IT Admins Employees

Vendors Customers

Machine Identities

Securing the expanding number and types of identities ­ within business applications, from hybrid to multicloud workloads and throughout the Dev/Ops pipeline ­ requires a new holistic, risk-based approach, centered on privileged controls.

6

79%
of enterprises have had an identity-related breach within
the past two years
December, 2019. The State of Identity: How Security Teams are Addressing Risk
Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

ANATOMY OF AN IDENTITY-BASED ATTACK

Step 1: Acquire a valid set of credentials for an identity, any identity.
There are many methods attackers use to establish an initial entry point but compromising identities is an especially productive tactic. One of the most effective is phishing or social engineering that tricks employees into leaking usernames and passwords. Also topping this list: insider threats and unsecure application code where credentials are hard-coded and unintentionally exposed to attackers.

Step 2: Move laterally and vertically to escalate privilege.
With this newfound access, attackers start to worm in deeper, moving between identities, applications and systems to uncover new levels of access. Privileges are escalated higher and higher until the attackers reach the ultimate prize: systems, applications and databases containing critical business assets such as your customer data and sensitive intellectual property.

Step 3: Attack.
With high levels of privileged access in hand, attackers begin to exfiltrate your critical customer, financial data or intellectual property. Or, as we increasingly see in the headlines, attackers threaten to shut down systems or leak sensitive data unless a ransom is received. Either way, the outcome is the same: expensive and painful remediation that consumes cycles of security teams that were already stretched to the limit to begin with.

Internal Threats
1
External Threats

2
Move Laterally
ESCALATE PRIVILEGES

Perform Reconnaissance

3

Exfiltrate Data

Disrupt Business

7

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

EMBRACING AN "ASSUME BREACH" MENTALITY
With traditional network security barriers dissolving, it is very likely your business has already been breached. The question becomes, are you protected even if that's the case? This is the premise of a Zero Trust approach, which we will discuss more in point 4. By assuming that any identity ­ whether human or machine ­ in your network may have been compromised, you can turn your attention to identifying, isolating and stopping threats from compromising identities and gaining privilege, before they can do harm.
8

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

3 THE IDENTITY PARADOX: SPEED VS. SECURITY
As the pace of digital continues to accelerate, security strategies can only be effective if they are balanced with needs of the business to move quickly and operate unencumbered.
Requiring users to repeatedly authenticate themselves to systems and applications ­ and maintain multiple complex passwords ­ is cumbersome and time consuming. At best, IT teams spend an unacceptable amount of time dealing with password resets, account lockouts and provisioning users with new software and tools. At worst, workers develop clever ways to get around the controls you worked hard to put in place -- or avoid using company approved systems and applications altogether.
In short, businesses find themselves stuck between a rock (keeping all systems and data as secure as possible) and a hard place (keeping teams productive). There is a huge need for solutions that can strike a balance. One that empowers users by giving them fast, responsive and easy access to everything they need, but does so in a way that is continuously secure and keeps attackers at bay.

"Speed is the new currency of business."
Marc R. Benioff, Chairman and CEO, Salesforce

9

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

Striking a balance in the DevOps pipeline
Embracing digital innovation also means embracing DevOps, where developers and IT teams rely heavily on automation and cloud services to accelerate the pace of innovation and software releases. But securing that pipeline is often inconsistent. Often, teams hard code privileged credentials directly into code, rely on native security components of the tools or sometimes don't prioritize security at all. Not always because they don't want to but also because they don't understand the specific security needs. As a result, the credentials and secrets used by application and machine identities become easy targets for attackers. And because security isn't typically addressed until the end of the process, developers feel the pain in terms of last-minute code changes and delayed releases.
10

"Think in terms of, "How do I allow my developers to do the right thing without stifling their agility?"
Fred Gibbins, Senior Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer, American Express Company
Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

4 ACHIEVE ZERO TRUST THROUGH IDENTITY SECURITY
While traditional perimeter-based security relies on trying to separate the bad guys from the good guys and assumes that systems and traffic within the data center can be trusted, Zero Trust assumes that the bad guys are already in your network and have access to your applications and systems.

In a Zero Trust model, every identity is authenticated and authorized before granting access.

Verify every user

Validate every device

Intelligently limit privileged access

Zero Trust is not a single technology but an approach that ensures every user's identity is verified, their devices are validated and their access is intelligently limited to just what they need ­ and taken away when they don't.
Identity Security offers a set of technologies that are foundational to a Zero Trust approach. The Identity Defined Security Alliance provides a useful framework for understanding the technology components ­ from devices to network, applications and storage ­ that require protection at the identity level.

Coupled with proper shifts in people and process, Identity Security offers the promise to finally resolve the battle between security and business agility.

71%

Made organizational changes to the ownership of identity management
December, 2019. The State of Identity: How Security Teams are Addressing Risk

11

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

Identities

IDENTITY SECURITY
Identity Security is a holistic, risk-based approach that secures human and machine identities to protect your applications, infrastructure and data.

Access

Privileged Controls

Entitlements

Targets
Applications

Human Machine Identities

Centralize Access (Single-Sign-On)
Adaptive MFA and Passwordless
Endpoint Identity Security

Credentials and Secrets Management
Session Management for Federated and Shared Accounts
Least Privilege and Just-in-time Access

Identity Lifecycle Management
Permissions and Entitlements Management

Infrastructure Data Cloud Hybrid

Continuous AI-Based Threat and Risk Assessment

12

Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

5 A ROADMAP FOR SUCCESS
Identity Security offers organizations a holistic risk-based approach to securing human and machine identities, giving them peace of mind that their most critical assets are secure while accelerating business agility. But getting started can be half the battle. The CyberArk Blueprint is a best practice framework for Identity Security success. It prescribes Identity Security controls and best practices for organizations using conventional on-premises infrastructure and software development methods, as well as for organizations embarking on digital transformation projects. Organizations use the Blueprint to pinpoint and address their greatest identity risks as quickly as possible, while also building a future-proof Identity Security program. Founded on incident response lessons learned and cutting-edge research from the CyberArk Labs team, the Blueprint provides vendor-agnostic and measurable risk-based advice to defend against identity-based attacks.
13

Chart your course with the CyberArk Blueprint
Request your complimentary assessment Cyberark.com/blueprint
Identity Security: Why it Matters and Why Now

About CyberArk
CyberArk (NASDAQ: CYBR) is the global leader in Identity Security. Centered on privileged access management, CyberArk provides the most comprehensive security offering for any identity ­ human or machine ­ across business applications, distributed workforces, hybrid cloud workloads and throughout the DevOps lifecycle. The world's leading organizations trust CyberArk to help secure their most critical assets. To learn more about CyberArk, visit www.cyberark.com, read the CyberArk blogs or follow on Twitter via @CyberArk, LinkedIn or Facebook.
©Copyright 2021 CyberArk Software. All rights reserved. No portion of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by any means without the express written consent of CyberArk Software.
CyberArk®, the CyberArk logo and other trade or service names appearing above are registered trademarks (or trademarks) of CyberArk Software in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Any other trade and service names are the property of their respective owners.
CyberArk believes the information in this document is accurate as of its publication date. The information is provided without any express, statutory, or implied warranties and is subject to change without notice. THIS PUBLICATION IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER WHETHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR OTHERWISE. IN NO EVENT SHALL CYBERARK BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, AND IN PARTICULAR CYBERARK SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, OR DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF REVENUE OR LOSS OF USE, COST OF REPLACEMENT GOODS, LOSS OR DAMAGE TO DATA ARISING FROM USE OF OR IN RELIANCE ON THIS PUBLICATION, EVEN IF CYBERARK HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. U.S., 11.21 Doc: WRQ-133

