DATA S H E E T

ILLUMIO CLOUDSECURE
Protecting Cloud-Native Applications and Infrastructure Across Multi-Cloud and Hybrid Environments
Reduce cloud risk, simplify security enforcement, and accelerate Zero Trust segmentation in the cloud

Mastering Visibility Challenges in the Cloud
Illumio CloudSecure delivers agentless visibility for cloudnative applications and IaaS and PaaS infrastructure across multi-cloud and hybrid cloud environments.
CloudSecure offers real-time application insights on cloud workload communications, security policy, usage, access and risk exposure.
CloudSecure collects object metadata and flow telemetry from public cloud accounts, which it uses to build an application dependency map of workloads and connected objects across multiple cloud providers and accounts.
How CloudSecure provides three steps to better cloud security:
1. Collects object metadata and flow telemetry from your public cloud accounts
2. Builds an application dependency map of workloads and connected objects
3. Recommends rules, optimizes, and safely programs Zero Trust policies at scale using native controls

Agentless Visibility Into Cloud Environments
Illumio CloudSecure helps you protect your cloud-native applications and reduces your security risks by eliminating blind spots in multiple public clouds and on-premises data centers.
CloudSecure continuously monitors and protects cloud-native apps, virtual machines, cloud containers, serverless resources, cloud managed databases, and other PaaS and IaaS infrastructure across multiple cloud providers and accounts.
Automatically generate data labels and continually monitor, define and adapt policy based on real-time context (tags, traffic, and logs) to quickly diagnose issues and maintain dynamic security controls for cloud environments.
When coupled with Illumio Core, organizations gain comprehensive visibility across multi-cloud, hybrid cloud, and on-premises data centers from a single view.
CloudSecure helps you to safely program and orchestrate cloud workload policies at scale with native cloud controls like AWS Security Groups via AWS CloudFormation and Terraform templates.

"Illumio CloudSecurewill provide visibility and control over our cloud-native applications, so we can understand and respond to risk across clouds and on-premises environments, helping enhance our resiliency, maintain compliance, and ultimately protect the business and our customers."
-- Leading Australian financial institution

DATA S H E E T

A New Approach to Cloud-Native Security
CloudSecure makes it simple and easy to see your cloud security risks and implement fine-grained controls.

Key Innovations
· Complete visibility, risk prioritization, rules optimization and segmentation control across multi-cloud and hybrid cloud environments
· Full integration with Illumio Core to offer a holistic single-pane-of-glass view of all cloud workloads across public clouds and on-premises data centers

· Real-time traffic flow and application dependency map (not just a configurations view)
· Seamless integration with native cloud controls to centrally program and orchestrate workload policies across accounts and regions

ILLUMIO CLOUDSECURE

Public Cloud

AWS Azure Others

Objects (fetched via APIs)
· Virtual machines · Managed databases · Containers · Serverless · Elastic network interfaces (ENIs)

Agentless Cloud Object Metadata &
Flow Telemetry

Relationships (via S3s & Storage Acts)
· Flow logs · Cloud accounts

Cloud workloads
Mapping of cloud tags
to labels

Application Dependency Map

Illumio CloudSecure

Policy Compute Engine (PCE)

I'm excited about Illumio CloudSecure because it can help us visualize risk in such a clear and informative way across Azure and AWS that was not otherwise possible.
-- Greg Leibel, Cloud and Security Architect, Ixom

CCTloAuBdo-Nxative Security Made Easy CLTeAarngoheoswhIelluremQiouCialocuodrSeepceul re ebcrtianqgsuiudnoplroercuemdeenlteipdsvaispiboisliteyt
and control to cloud computing.
liVniksiht:eirlelumio.com/products/cloudsecure

About Illumio
Illumio, the pioneer and market leader of Zero Trust segmentation, prevents breaches from becoming cyber disasters. Illumio protects critical applications and valuable digital assets with proven segmentation technology purpose-built for the Zero Trust security model. Illumio ransomware mitigation and segmentation solutions see risk, isolate attacks, and secure data across cloud-native apps, hybrid and multi-clouds, data centers, and endpoints, enabling the world's leading organizations to strengthen their cyber resiliency and reduce risk.
Copyright © 2021 Illumio, Inc. All rights reserved. Illumio® is a trademark or registered trademark of Illumio, Inc. or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third-party trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.

