Indiana University Finds Their Drive for Cost-Savings & Platform Flexibility
BUSINESS DRIVERS
Once their current cloud storage provider announced they would be increasing costs significantly, Indiana University needed to migrate their 140,000 users and nearly 3PB of content from Box to Google & Microsoft for cost reasons. But eight months after taking on this migration project, IU's Microsoft O365 team lead Adam Sweeny and Justin Zemlyak, the Director of Teaching & Learning Technologies, were having difficulty charting a path that would preserve all the features of their previous platform in their new platform and would transfer files without significant user intervention. In need of a strong, fast migration solution that could reduce their overall storage costs with minimal disruption, they reached out to Microsoft and Internet2, which eventually connected them to DryvIQ.
"Our migration with Dryv has cost considerably less than our original cloud storage subscription."
Adam Sweeny, Microsoft O365 Team Lead @ Indiana University
DryvIQ | Indiana University Finds Their Drive for Cost Savings & Platform Flexibility

THE PROBLEM

Due to the size and scope of the project, Indiana University's migration posed many challenges for the Migration Task Force.
Funding, lack of user enthusiasm, and platform incompatibilities added additional considerations to an already ambitious mission and timeline.
After considering Dryv, Sweeny & Zemlyak did their due diligence and explored some other migration tools.

However, none offered the scale and flexibility they needed for migrating to both Microsoft and Google while addressing their unique migration challenges.
"It's like trying to fly a plane that needs repairs at the same time," Sweeny said.
But with a strong migration partner in DryvIQ, IU was able to overcome these challenges and are on their way to a successful migration.

RESULTS

3 PB
migration with no disruption

140,000
users migrated to Google & OneDrive

ROI
delivered immediately to IU

CONCLUSION
Dan Calarco, Chair of the migration taskforce has advice for other higher education institutions planning their cloud migration: "It shouldn't be done lightly, and it won't be smooth or painless. It's like moving houses; you're going to discover some junk and bad practices. So start thinking about if as you were to physically move. And hire a good mover."
DryvIQ | Indiana University Finds Their Drive for Cost Savings & Platform Flexibility

