Upskill and certify your team with hands-on cybersecurity education
Threats move fast -- your team moves faster
Upskill and certify cyber teams with dozens of live boot camps, 1,400+ on-demand courses and hundreds of hands-on labs. Maximize success with role-guided training mapped to in-demand cyber roles like penetration tester, SOC analyst and cloud security engineer, as well as industry standards like the NICE Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity and MITRE ATT&CK® Matrix for Enterprise.
Interactive Infosec Skills cyber ranges go one step further to help your team move from theory to practice through guided, realistic labs inside operating environments they encounter on the job -- with clear learning objectives and actionable lessons.
Five pillars of a successful training program

Role-guided
Maximize training relevancy and impact with training for all 52 NICE Work Roles and 12 in-demand cyber
roles.

Hands-on
Accelerate skill development and increase knowledge retention with handson labs in cloud-hosted
cyber ranges.

Accessible
Help your team train however they learn best, whether that's in a live boot camp, self-paced course or
hands-on lab.

Measurable
Assess knowledge and skills to pinpoint gaps and training needs -- then measure progress with team reporting.

Engaging
Train your team with bite-sized modules taught by the best industry experts,
reinforced with practice exams, monthly challenges and certificates of
completion.

Download course catalog
Use code "INFOSEC30" for 30 days free

Training for every cybersecurity role
All Infosec Skills training maps directly to standard cybersecurity roles to help you build a personalized, scalable team development program and close cyber skills gaps. Quickly surface and assign training from any NICE Work Role or reference Infosec Skills Roles for 12 pre-built training roadmaps.
Learn how to ATT&CK & defend in the cyber range
Infosec Skills cyber ranges guide learners through realistic scenarios inside the operating environments they'd encounter on the job.
From command line basics to advanced adversarial techniques, Infosec Skills cyber ranges teach your team how to:
» Run red and blue team exercises » Write secure code by example » Attack and defend cloud-based applications » Pass dozens of technical certifications by gaining
hands-on domain knowledge » Attack and defend cloud-based applications
"Infosec Skills is a very good place for building technical acumen and engineering development knowledge. It enables us to provide training to the entire team on relevant topics."
-- Romy Ricafort, West Division Senior Director of Sales Engineering
Use code "INFOSEC30" for 30 days free

Get certified -- then stay certified with 100s of CPE opportunities
Infosec Skills includes training for dozens of popular certifications from CompTIA®, (ISC)²®, ISACA®, Cisco®, Microsoft®, AWSTM and more. Prepare for your next exam with help from our expert instructors, then gauge exam readiness with unlimited access to customizable practice exams. With completion certificates available for every course, Infosec Skills has everything you need to keep existing certifications current with 100s of CPE opportunities.
Enroll in a live boot camp for guaranteed certification
IT and security certification is often more than a goal -- it's a business requirement. That's why we offer dozens of certification boot camps taught by industry experts with 10+ years of experience. Live boot camps include:
» Exam voucher » Boot camp video replays and materials » 1-year access to the Infosec Skills on-demand training
library
Here's how we guarantee certification success:
» Exam Pass Guarantee*: Students who don't pass their exam on the first attempt get a second attempt free. Includes the ability to re-sit the course for free for up to one year.
» 100% Satisfaction Guarantee: Students who are not 100% satisfied with their boot camp at the end of day one may enroll in a different online or in-person course.
» Knowledge Transfer Guarantee: If your employee leaves within three months of obtaining certification, we will train a different employee tuition-free for up to one year.
*Does not apply to CMMC-AB boot camps.

Use code "INFOSEC30" for 30 days free

Browse boot camps

Track your team's progress -- inside Infosec Skills or your existing LMS
Quickly enroll your team via single sign-on (SSO) or CSV upload, then organize team members into groups to easily assign training to specific departments or roles. We'll help you secure next year's employee development budget with at-a-glance metrics that prove training impact at the individual, group and team levels like:
» Training progress and completion rates » Skills assessment and practice exam scores » Boot camp attendance and completion rates With Infosec Skills' integration capabilities, you can view learner data within existing business intelligence systems and add Infosec Skills course information to any LMS or website for a seamless, centralized learning experience.
Award-winning training you can trust
About Infosec
Infosec believes knowledge is power when fighting cybercrime. We help IT and security professionals advance their careers with skills development and certifications while empowering all employees with security awareness and privacy training to stay cyber-safe at work and home. Learn more at infosecinstitute.com.
©2022 Infosec, Inc. All rights reserved.

