Training for every cybersecurity role -- Live online, in-person or on-demand.
Take the guesswork out of cybersecurity skills development
Upskill and certify your team with 1,500+ courses, hands-on labs and live boot camps -- mapped to the NICE Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity and Infosec Skills Roles.
Align to industry standards with training mapped to the NICE Framework
Infosec Skills courses are mapped to specific Knowledge and Skill Statements to provide you ultimate flexibility when building employee development plans. Browse by Work Roles or individual Knowledge and Skill Statements to assign training based on your team's individual responsibilities.
Find the right training -- faster -- with Infosec Skills Roles
Infosec Skills Roles provide training recommendations for 12 of the most common cybersecurity positions. Use these Roles to quickly build employee development plans.

Relevant training
Quickly surface and assign training content that applies directly to
NICE Framework Work Roles and Competencies.

Comprehensive mapping
Get detailed insight into what your team is learning with mapping to over 620 unique Knowledge and
Skill Statements.

Custom roles
Build a custom training plan that aligns with unique roles within
your organization. However you've opted to implement the NICE Framework, we can help.

"We use Infosec Skills to provide continuous training to our technicians and to prepare them for various certifications. Infosec Skills allows us to create personalized training programs that focus on each of our technicians' particular roles and see their progress as they take courses."
-- Caleb Yankus, CTO at Last Bastion Technology

Download the fully mapped catalog

About Infosec
Infosec believes knowledge is power when fighting cybercrime. We help IT and security professionals advance their careers with skills development and certifications while empowering all employees with security awareness and privacy training to stay cyber-safe at work and home. It's our mission to equip all organizations and individuals with the know-how and confidence to outsmart cybercrime. Learn more at infosecinstitute.com.
©2022 Infosec, Inc. All rights reserved.

