Security awareness training & phishing simulator
Employees are not a cybersecurity problem. They're part of the solution. Empower them with the knowledge and skills to stay cyber secure at work and at home.

Build cybersecurity into your organization's culture

Personalize employee training with role-based modules and gamified lessons in a variety of themes and styles to engage learners and strengthen your cybersecurity culture.
Automate learner management, training campaigns and phishing simulations to keep lessons relevant -- and save you time.
Integrate with your LMS, identify provider, endpoint protection and SOC to streamline program management, reporting and attack response.
Analyze employee risk scores, learning outcomes and your cybersecurity culture to identify weaknesses and anticipate cyber threats.
Improve your training efforts with actionable data to make secure behaviors second nature for every employee.

Personalize

Automate

Improve

Integrate

Analyze

9+ annual training plans

400+ training modules

5+ security awareness
games

200+ newsletters,
posters & infographics

1,000+ phishing templates

34+ supported languages

Security awareness training built to educate & engage

Comprehensive training made easy
Activate pre-built program plans in a variety of themes and styles to jumpstart awareness and deliver comprehensive training mapped to NIST recommendations.
Choose from gamified, Choose Your Own Adventure® education to traditional, computer-based training to fit your organization's existing culture or build a cyber secure culture from the ground up.

Stay compliant & train for your industry's top threats
Does your organization have regulatory requirements for security awareness training? Choose industry-tailored education mapped to specific standards and regulations such as HIPAA, PCI DSS, FERPA, GDPR and more.

Address every need with custom education

Customize your training program to match your brand, tailor training to your security policy or address unique cybersecurity threats facing your organization. Virtually every training resource in Infosec IQ is customizable including:

» Assessments » Phishing templates » Phishing education

» Newsletters » And more

Deliver the right training for every learner
Automatically deliver training tailored to each employee's role and security aptitude. Learners can review their training history, watch recommended content and select their preferred language from their personalized dashboard.
Infosec IQ training is diverse, inclusive and accessible for all learners in compliance with WCAG 2.1 AA and Section 508.

Prepare every employee with phishing simulations & training
Turn simulated phishing into lasting behavior change
Choose from our library of 1,000+ templates updated weekly to build your own phishing campaigns or run simulations automatically.
Every phishing template is paired with microlearning tailored to the specific attack. This allows you to automatically serve the most relevant training in the teachable moment to maximize training impact.
Simulate the most sophisticated phishing attacks
Prepare your employees for the most challenging threats they face by simulating the same domain spoofing, typosquatting and attack techniques scammers find most effective.
Customize phishing templates or build your own
Every aspect of the Infosec IQ phishing simulator and training is customizable, giving you the ability to tailor employee phishing training to your organization's greatest threats. Copy and paste real emails to send as simulated phish, use the drag-and-drop template editor to quickly update existing phishing emails or build your own from scratch.
Empower employees to report phishing emails
Turn your employees into active members of your cybersecurity defense with the PhishNotify email reporting plugin. Install the reporting button globally and encourage employees to report phishing emails with a single click. Infosec IQ thanks employees when they report phishing simulations and moves real email threats to quarantine for review and automated threat analysis.
Simulated phishing attack types

Drive by

Data entry

Business Email Compromise
(BEC)

Spearphishing

Social engineering

Malware and malicious
attachments

Build a security awareness program that works for you

Track results easier than ever
Browse our library of reporting dashboards and surface your most impactful data in seconds. Want to share results with executives and stakeholders? Deliver personalized dashboards filtered by learner group, department and more, to get the right data to the right people, automatically.

Automate your security awareness training
Provision learners using one of our automated solutions and dynamically assign learners to groups for personalized education
Respond to employee-reported emails faster with PhishHunter threat analysis
Stream Infosec IQ training modules from your learning management system (LMS) with SCORM packages

Integrate your endpoint protection to deliver training the moment it blocks a security event
Connect with your identity provider to authenticate employees via SSO or deliver a universal training link
Build your own custom integrations using our open API

Measure your cybersecurity culture
Your cybersecurity culture is one of the greatest reflections of your security practices and a top predictor of employee behaviors. We made it easy to measure your employees' attitudes and perceptions towards cybersecurity and your security training efforts. This allows you to go beyond traditional success metrics like phishing click rate, giving you a new way to quantify success, identify weaknesses and build strategies for improvement.
About Infosec
Infosec believes knowledge is power when fighting cybercrime. We help IT and security professionals advance their careers with skills development and certifications while empowering all employees with security awareness and privacy training to stay cyber-safe at work and home. Learn more at infosecinstitute.com.
©2022 Infosec, Inc. All rights reserved.

