Security Built on a Foundation of Trust

Security Begins with Intel®. Our culture and practices help ensure everything we build is designed to deliver the highest performance while optimizing protection. We are relentless in our pursuit of innovation with security that helps our customers tackle today's toughest challenges. We innovate to help protect data and privacy, centered around three key priorities:

Software Reliability
Harden the software to help protect against a range of cybersecurity threats

Extended Page Tables Sub-page Write Protection (EPT-SPP)
Increased protection against rootkits via expanded runtime monitoring of Intel VT Extended Page Tables (EPT).

Intel® Control-Flow Enforcement Technology (Intel® CET)
Designed to protect against the misuse of legitimate code through control-flow hijacking attacks.

Intel® Threat Detection Technology (Intel® TDT)
Silicon-enabled, high-efficacy ransomware and cryptojacking detection with minimal impact to the user experience by offloading compute-intensive AI algorithms and security workloads to the Intel integrated GPU.

Anomalous Behavior Detection for Intel TDT
Monitors applications for early indicators of compromise with the ability to help detect supply chain style attacks.

Page Protection Keys
Protection keys provide a user-level, page-granular way to grant and revoke access permission without changing page tables.

User-Mode Instruction Prevention (UMIP)
Designed to prevent address leakage of operating system structures & settings.

Workload and Data Protection
Protect data using accelerated encryption and trusted execution enclaves

Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller Virtualization (APICv)
APICv reduces overhead by eliminating virtual machine exits triggered for virtual interrupt handling.

Intel® OS Guard
Designed to prevent instruction execution from user memory pages while the CPU is in supervisor mode.

Intel® Secure Key
A high-entropy random number generator designed to comply with ANSI/NIST standards. Formerly known as DRNG.

Intel® Software Guard Extensions (Intel® SGX)
Granular trusted execution environment with host level processing.

Intel® Virtualization Technology (Intel® VT)
Hardware assisted virtualization of the CPU context, I/O devices, and direct memory access (DMA).

Intel Virtualization Technology ­ Redirect Protection (Intel® VT-rp)
Extends hardware-rooted virtualization-based security to Intel vPro® PCs, helping boost security for virtualized environments.

Mode-Based Execution Control
Granular Extended Page Table execution control for user (XU) and supervisor (XS) pages.

Foundational Security
Secure the foundation to help systems start and operate as intended

Intel® Advanced Encryption Standard New Instructions (Intel® AES-NI)
Intel AES-NI dramatically reduces the compute cost for AES symmetric encryption.

Intel® Crypto Acceleration

Intel® BIOS Guard

Intel® Boot Guard

Intel instruction set architecture (ISA) enhancements designed to significantly increase cryptographic performance.

Hardens flash storage to help prevent unauthorized BIOS modification and code execution.

Hardware-based root of trust to help protect the integrity of the platform boot process.

Intel® Converged Security and Management Engine (Intel® CSME)
Cross-platform engine designed to support a range of Security and Manageability services.

Intel® Firmware Guard
Collaboration with OEMs for better firmware resiliency, faster adoption of mitigations, data protection, and improved recovery from update failures.

Intel® Platform Firmware Resilience (Intel® PFR)
Verify firmware signatures prior to processor power-on, monitor boot progress, protect flash/recovery memory, and recover firmware to a healthy state.

Intel® Platform Trust Technology (Intel® PTT)
Credential storage and key management offering the capabilities of a discrete Trusted Platform Module (TPM 2.0).

Intel® QuickAssist Technology (Intel® QAT)
Platform based hardware-acceleration for cryptography and data compression.

Intel® Runtime BIOS Resilience
Reduces the risk that malware can be injected into System Management Mode (SMM) at runtime.

Intel® System Resources Defense
Extends the ability to enforce resource access policies for System Management Interrupt (SMI) handler firmware.

Intel® System Security Report
Communicates policies to the operating system in a trusted manner at runtime, in coordination with Intel TXT.

Intel® Total Memory Encryption (Intel® TME)
Provides memory data protection against physical attacks on lost or stolen platforms.

Intel® Total Memory Encryption ­ Multi-Key (Intel® TME-MK)
Encrypts DRAM to help protect against physical cold boot attacks, with multiple keys that the OS can use to encrypt sections of memory.

Tunable Replica Circuit ­ Fault Injection Detection
Monitors voltage droop, temperature, and aging variation in circuits to help detect timing violations that can mitigate fault-injection attacks.

Intel® Trusted Execution Technology (Intel® TXT)
Validates the behavior of key components at system startup.

Notices and Disclaimers Performance varies by use, configuration and other factors. Learn more at www.intel.com/PerformanceIndex. Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software or service activation. No product or component can be absolutely secure. Your costs and results may vary. © Intel Corporation. Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

Learn more at intel.com/hwsecurity

