SOLUTION GUIDE
Intelligence Management for Splunk Enterprise and Enterprise Security
Accelerate investigations through automated data enrichment

The Problem
Manual vetting and data from multiple sources cause analysts to waste much of their time data wrangling, taking time away from alerts that matter the most. Analysts need the ability to normalize and enrich multiple data sources for an objective view of security events.

The Solution
The Splunk Intelligence Management (formerly TruSTAR) Unified App for Splunk Enterprise and Enterprise Security helps security professionals analyze notable events and leverage intelligence to quickly understand threat context and prioritize and accelerate triage. With Splunk Intelligence Management, analysts can leverage data in Splunk and enrich against threat intelligence feeds and case management data to gain insight into attack trends.

Feature Highlights

Use Cases

Leverage Indicator Prioritization Intelligence Flows to easily select intelligence sources, apply priority scores, Safelists, and filters based on Indicator type or attributes, and submit prepared data into Enclaves for Splunk to ingest.
Load Indicators from Splunk Intelligence Management into Splunk KV Stores
Enrich a notable event in Splunk ES using intel from Enclaves.
Update notable event urgency in Splunk ES based on normalized scores from Splunk Intelligence Management.

Detect Automatically download observables from Premium Intelligence, Open Source, or Sharing Groups into Splunk KV Stores for use in searching or to alert against internal log events.
Triage Enrich and prioritize notable events in Splunk Enterprise Security with multiple intelligence sources for accelerated investigations.

Prioritize notable events using scores from intel sources normalized to a common scale.

Optimize Workflows Customize data ingest preference based on Indicator type, tags, and age of Indicator to cut down on data volume exchange between tools for better accuracy.
Investigate and Respond Automatically submit notable events to Enclaves for further enrichment and correlation with historical data to triage alerts based on context and severity.
Prepare Data Splunk Intelligence Management allows companies to centralize, normalize, and prioritize cyber intelligence to help with investigation time and resources.

SOLUTION GUIDE

Open Source Premium Intelligence
ISAC/ISAO Historical Intelligence

Prepare

Connect

Normalized Context

Internal & External Teams

Preserve Original Content

1

3

Workflow Apps

2 Collect
Multi Source Automated Ingest

Enclave

4 Prioritize

Unified Intelligence
API

Priority & Normalized Scores Multi Safelist Libraries Filter by Indicator Type

Alerts Notable Events

Ecosystem Apps Splunk ES Splunk SOAR

Requirements
· Access to both Splunk and TruSTAR · Download the TruSTAR Unified App from Splunkbase and find install instructions in the Product Learning
Guides for Intelligence Management.

Get started at www.trustar.co/contact-sales
Splunk, Splunk> and Turn Data Into Doing are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2022 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

www.splunk.com
22-19521-Splunk-Intelligence Management for Splunk Enterprise-SG-103

