DATASHEET
OneTrust IT & Security Risk Management
Proactively Identify, Measure, Mitigate, and Monitor IT & Security Risk
Data Sprawl and Emerging Threats Increase the Need for Matured Risk Management While digital transformation has enhanced efficiency and insights within organizations, it has also added layers of complexity for IT & security risk managers. It is increasingly important that businesses have a clear understanding of their operations and associated risks as threats and vulnerabilities evolve.
Operationalize your IT and Security Risk Programs with OneTrust GRC OneTrust delivers the functionality and ease of use to help IT & Security Risk teams map, measure and action risk in real-time and scale their risk management programs. With OneTrust, you can centralize your IT ecosystem, streamline the risk management lifecycle, and promote risk ownership with a first-line friendly solution. Identify and manage IT risk today and in the future without the need to retool as your business evolves.

Connect Your IT Ecosystem
Inventory and relate assets, risks, controls, and integrate with risk
adjacent systems.

Measure Risk
Quantify risk with streamlined risk assessments enhanced by AI.

Remediate Risk
Expedite and manage risk treatment plans with workflow automation.

Monitor Control Performance
Facilitate self-assessments and continuous controls monitoring.

Visualize & Report
Inform decision making with role-based reporting for executives, risk managers,
and risk owners.

DATASHEET
CONNECT YOUR IT ECOSYSTEM Inventory and relate assets, risks, controls, and integrate with risk adjacent systems.  Maintain an evergreen asset inventory through assessments and integrations with asset discovery tools.  Map your inventory of assets, risks, and controls, and connect your IT ecosystem with a gallery of 500+ pre-built integrations.  Enable operational business owners to proactively launch discovery and risk-based questionnaires through a role-based portal.
MEASURE RISK Quantify risk with streamlined risk assessments enhanced by AI.  Leverage flexible and easily configurable risk aggregation and scoring methodologies, that you can evolve over time.  Select from a library of common security and compliance assessments or build your own with an intuitive drag-and-drop builder.  Build logic into your risk assessment to automate translation of first-line business information to second line risk and control
identification.
REMEDIATE RISK Expedite and manage risk treatment plans with workflow automation.  Prioritize risk mitigation based on correlation to critical assets and processes.  Collaborate on risk remediation plans with pre-built and customizable workflow capabilities.  Trigger updates to residual risk scores based on performance of mitigating controls.
MONITOR CONTROL PERFORMANCE Facilitate self-assessments and continuous controls monitoring.  Access a library of pre-mapped controls from leading IT & security frameworks or easily import your custom controls.  Evaluate control performance, maturity, and distribution throughout your business.  Automate evidence collection and controls assessment with continuous controls monitoring.
VISUALIZE & REPORT Inform decision making with role-based reporting for executives, risk managers, and risk owners.  Aggregate, benchmark, and trend risk or drill down into related business units, assets, and individual risks to support
informed decision making.  Visualize themes in how risk is impacting the business, where in the organization risks exist, and where treatment of risk
may be delayed.  Provide visibility for stakeholders to see which risks they are responsible for, and help prioritize action based on criticality or deadline.
REQUEST A DEMO AT ONETRUSTGRC.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | MELBOURNE | DENVER | SEATTLE SAN FRANCISCO | NEW YORK | S홒 PAULO | MUNICH | PARIS | HONG KONG | BANGKOK OneTrust GRC enables risk, compliance and audit professionals to identify, measure, and remediate risk across their business to comply with internal rules and external regulations. With OneTrust GRC, companies can seamlessly integrate risk management into their day to day activities. OneTrust GRC is a part of OneTrust, the #1 most widely used privacy, security, and governance platform trusted by more than 9,000 customers and powered by 150 awarded
patents. To learn more, visit OneTrustGRC.com or connect on LinkedIn. Copyright  2021 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

