DATA SHEET
Kenna.AppSec

Kenna.AppSec
Risk-based findings and vulnerability management for your applications
Application security teams lack the centralized view and context required to know which application findings and vulnerabilities to remediate first.

If your organization is like many others, your application security program is still fairly immature. At the same time, business applications are only gaining in number and importance, and cyberthreats continue to grow more advanced. It's time to arm your application security teams with a solution that lets them get ahead of cyber risk.

While application security teams have a wide range of tools at their disposal, these tools are typically deployed in isolation--by different teams at different stages of the application development process--making information sharing a challenge. As a result, no one team has the full context required to understand which application findings and vulnerabilities pose the most risk. In addition, each of these tools finds many of the same weaknesses and vulnerabilities, leading to duplicated effort from multiple teams, wasting precious time and limited resources.
Because maintenance takes development teams away from their primary responsibility of getting new features out the door, they typically have limited cycles to work on all but the most essential security issues. Therefore, correlation and rich contextual information is essential for application security teams to truly understand which application findings are related so that they can appropriately triage and prioritize remediation efforts to make the best use of the limited time their development teams can dedicate to security.
Kenna.AppSec overcomes these challenges by empowering security, DevOps, and development teams to continuously, effectively, and proactively triage and remediate the application findings and vulnerabilities that pose the most risk.

How Kenna.AppSec Works
Kenna.AppSec collects, correlates, and normalizes application security data from static and dynamic scanners, penetration test results, and open source scanners.
Once all the data has been collected and correlated, Kenna.AppSec provides powerful triage capabilities that are persistent across scans. In tandem with rich contextual data, security and development teams can rapidly mark findings or vulnerabilities using several triage states, to assist them in quickly tackling the highest risk issues first. To help compute the relative risk of each vulnerability, Kenna gathers and normalizes scoring data from all supported scanners on all findings and also applies advanced data science-based risk scoring on findings that are CVEs. Findings and vulnerabilities that are marked "triage" in the triage process can then be remediated.

www.kennasecurity.com

1

Key Features
· Efficient Triage and Remediation Workflows
Kenna.AppSec supports multiple triage states, multiple closed states, and the ability to mark a finding or vulnerability as "risk accepted". Kenna also supports the ability to roll up all findings associated with specific CWEs or CVEs so you can focus on the level of detail that matters the most to you.
· Rich Contextual Data
Kenna.AppSec provides rich contextual data on every finding and vulnerability. For CVEs, Kenna.AppSec is able to leverage over 15 threat and exploit intelligence feeds and predictive modeling. For findings that are not CVEs, like weaknesses and flaws, Kenna normalizes scanner risk scores and can group together related findings. This enables informed decisions on which risks have the greatest priority.
· Openness and Interoperability
Kenna.AppSec's API takes a front seat in the product. Due to the importance of interoperability and automation in the AppSec space, Kenna has added full findings support to its RESTful API. Some examples of what can be done with the API are scripts that pull in findings programmatically from a file, push findings to a file, automatically create and update tickets based on a given set of criteria, and more.

Why Kenna.AppSec?
Gain Comprehensive Application Security Context
Integrates application security data from a wide range of sources to deliver insights regarding the specific level of risk posed by each finding or vulnerability
Maintain Your Existing Application Security Workflows
Correlates and normalizes application security data from a wide range of sources and adds rich contextual data to optimize your triage and remediation workflows
Focus on What Matters Most to You
Delivers a granular view down to the findings level and can also clearly summarize critical information at the application level
Maximize the Efficiency of Your Limited Resources
Provides a highly efficient triage and remediation workflow and prioritizes application findings and vulnerabilities to determine which pose the most risk

To learn more about Kenna.AppSec visit us at www.kennasecurity.com/products/appsec
Kenna, Kenna Security, and Kenna.VM are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Kenna Security, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. © 2021 Kenna Security, Inc. All rights reserved.

A part of Cisco.

