SOLUTION BRIEF
Kenna.VM

Kenna.VM
Take a risk-based approach to vulnerability management

No one wants their organization to be the subject of the next data breach headline because a vulnerability was left unpatched. No one. But in order
to prevent a breach--high profile or otherwise--you need to fix vulnerabilities before they get exploited. Easier said than done given that the average large enterprise has thousands of assets and millions of vulnerabilities, with dozens of new ones discovered each day. The good news is that two percent of vulnerabilities are ever actively exploited in the wild. But even two percent of millions of vulnerabilities is still more than security and IT teams can handle. What you need is a solution that takes all of your internal security data, analyzes it along with billions of pieces of external data, and then tells you which vulnerabilities pose the most risk. A solution like Kenna.VM.
With Kenna, you can get more from your security data and stop manually managing vulnerabilities in Excel spreadsheets. Your security professionals will no longer have to waste valuable time researching each and every vulnerability in order to assess their severity, nor will you expend resources needlessly remediating based on insufficient methods such as using Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) scores. You'll finally be able to evaluate and prioritize based on true risk.

Kenna.VM is a scalable, software-as-a-service (SaaS) solution that delivers the most informed and accurate risk prioritization available, enabling security and IT operations teams to take a risk-based approach to vulnerability management by prioritizing and proactively managing the vulnerabilities that matter most. The solution combines 18+ threat and exploit intelligence feeds, 12.7+ billion managed vulnerabilities, global attack telemetry, and remediation intelligence to accurately track and measure real-world exploit activity across the enterprise's global attack surface. Using predictive modeling technology, Kenna.VM can also accurately forecast the future risk of vulnerabilities the instant they're discovered, allowing organizations to proactively manage risk.

Kenna Predictive Model vs. CVSS

TWICE THE EFFICIENCY
61% vs. 31%

HALF THE EFFORT
19K vs. 37K CVEs

ONE-THIRD THE FALSE POSITIVES
7K vs. 25K CVEs

BETTER COVERAGE
62% vs. 52%

The Science Behind Kenna
Kenna.VM is the only solution designed to look outside the organization to analyze and understand the volume and velocity of attacker activity and combine that data with extensive internal data sources to provide the context required to determine which vulnerabilities to remediate first. Employing machine learning and data science, the solution ingests, aggregates, and processes tens of billions of pieces of data, from more than 55 sources, including more than 18+ threat and exploit intelligence feeds, and then automates the analysis of this data using our proven data science algorithm to deliver an accurate, quantifiable risk score for every vulnerability within seconds.
To understand what attackers are doing in real time and evaluate which vulnerabilities are most likely to pose a threat to the organization's specific environment, Kenna.VM analyzes a variety of external and internal data sources, which are listed to the right.
Kenna uses all of this data to get a full view into the potential impact of each vulnerability, including the volume and velocity of attacker activity, as well as how critical each threat could be given your specific environment, and then translates that context into actionable security intelligence to guide remediation efforts and resource allocation.
www.kennasecurity.com

Ground Truth Telemetry
 18+ exploit intelligence feeds  12.7+ billion managed vulnerabilities  1+ billion security events processed monthlyy  29+ billion successful exploitation events  Global attack telemetry  Remediation intelligence
Internal Security Data Sources
 Vulnerability scanners  Endpoint, Container and Cloud Workload
Security Solutions  Asset- and network-specific data from
configuration management database (CMDB) tools  Penetration testing  Bug bounty programs  Static application testing  Dynamic application testing  Open source tools  Custom data sources in JSON format
2

Kenna Security's Solution

1. Ground Truth Telemetry
Kenna analyzes billions of pieces of information to understand attacker activity in real-time. We understand what attackers are doing, how they're doing it, and the tools they're using to exploit vulnerabilities in the wild. Kenna analyzes Ground Truth Telemetry to determine:

VOLUME AND VELOCITY We process and analyze threat data from 18+ feeds* to determine the volume and velocity with which attackers are exploiting vulnerabilities in the wild

EASILY EXPLOITABLE We analyze data from all available toolkits in the commercial space and dark web to determine which ones have weaponized capabilities
MALWARE EXPLOITABILITY We determine which malware strains exploit vulnerabilities as one of the steps in their process and determine the prevalence of that malware
ZERO DAY We analyze all available zero-day information and determine whether a customer is susceptible

*Kenna Intelligence Feeds

EXPLOIT INTELLIGENCE
 Metasploit  Canvas Exploitation
Framework  Github Exploit Feed
- Cyentia Institute  Exploit DB  ReversingLabs  Proofpoint  Secureworks CTU  D2 Elliot  Contagio  Continually Updated Black
Hat Kits

THREAT INTELLIGENCE
 AlienVault OTX  AlienVault Reputation  Silobreaker Threat
Intelligence  Secureworks CTU  Emerging Threats  ReversingLabs  Exodus Intelligence  SANS Internet Storm Center  X-Force Exchange

2. Risk Scoring Engine
Leveraging Ground Truth Telemetry and your internal security data, the Kenna Risk Scoring Engine algorithmically determines the risk scores of each unique vulnerability and group of assets. The risk score takes into account the number of instances of each vulnerability in your environment, the potential severity, and the assets that are threatened as a result of each vulnerability. Your organization will understand, in real time, your current risk posture and--more importantly--the actions you can take to affect the greatest impact on risk reduction.
3. Predictive Modeling
By harnessing machine learning, predictive modeling, and other data science techniques, Kenna enables security and IT teams to finally embrace predictive vulnerability management by calculating the risk of a vulnerability as soon as it is revealed--and long before an exploit can be built. Our predictive modeling forecasts the weaponization of new vulnerabilities with a confirmed 94 percent accuracy rate, and then prioritizes remediation based on the risk of exploitation. This gives your organization the foresight needed to remediate high-risk vulnerabilities before attackers can mount an attack.
4. Remediation Intelligence Engine
Kenna prioritizes remediation efforts based on what will reduce your risk score the most. The vulnerabilities that pose the greatest risk to the organization and whose remediation will have the maximum impact on risk score reduction are entered into a ticketing system. Because vulnerabilities are prioritized based on the risk score and not solely on how many assets will be impacted, these recommendations generate an increase in efficacy across all vulnerabilities.

www.kennasecurity.com

3

Why Kenna?

Accurately Measure Your Organization's Risk
Get the most informed and accurate risk assessment available by combining your vulnerability data, asset information, and real-time threat intelligence. The solution has flexibility that takes into account the asset criticality you define, in addition to real-time threat intelligence from 15+ exploit feeds, 7+ billion managed vulnerabilities, global attack telemetry, and remediation intelligence.

Prioritize High-Risk Vulnerabilities
Not all vulnerabilities are created equal, and many of them pose little to no risk. The solution automatically prioritizes the vulnerabilities that pose the most risk to the organization, so your teams can focus on remediating those first, making the best use of your limited resources.

helps security and IT communicate clearly and succinctly with management, so they can make data-driven investment decisions. In addition, dissemination of information between departments is automated, so security and IT share the same intelligence on the vulnerabilities and how to fix them.
Leverage Existing Investments

Predict Future Exploits
With Kenna's predictive modeling technology, you can, for the first time, accurately forecast which vulnerabilities will become weaponized the moment they are discovered. This type of technology enables you to achieve better coverage with twice the efficiency for half the effort of common remediation strategies such as fixing vulnerabilities with a CVSS score of 7 and above.
Align IT and Security Efforts with Business Objectives
Objective risk scoring improves collaboration between departments by giving them one common language, and

The solution easily integrates with your existing vulnerability scanners, ticketing systems, and other security infrastructure components to maximize efficiency across the organization. Kenna.VM is completely data agnostic, so you can leverage the volumetric data you already have from the investments you've already made.
" Kenna's important if you want to mature your technology usage and spend your time managing vulnerabilities, not managing spreadsheets."
Jasper Ossentjuk CISO, TransUnion

Find out more about the robust threat intelligence of Kenna.VM at www.kennasecurity.com
Kenna, Kenna Security, and Kenna.VM are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Kenna Security, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.  2021 Kenna Security, Inc. All rights reserved.

A part of Cisco.

