Simplify your PKI. Move it to the Cloud.
Keyfactor PKI as-a-Service combines expert-run PKI with powerful certificate lifecycle automation in a single cloud platform.

DATASHEET

The Leader in PKI as-a-Service
PKI is critical to enterprise security, but setting up the infrastructure and hiring the skilled personnel needed to build, operate, and maintain it 24x7 is no easy task. With security teams under increasing pressure, they need a new cloud-first approach to simplify and scale PKI on demand.
Key Benefits

1 Billion+
Certificates issued globally
10 of the Fortune 100
Run on Keyfactor PKIaaS
60%
Reduction in PKI Spend

Replace legacy hardware and maintenance
Eliminate the manual effort, expense, and risk of deploying and maintaining PKI infrastructure in house.

Maximize security and compliance
Meet security requirements with a dedicated, high-assurance PKI designed and built to the highest standards.

Automate and scale up on demand
No per-certificate fees, no hardware or software ­ scale to millions of certificates without any limitations.

Key Features
Get a best practice PKI built from the ground up
All our PKI deployments start with a robust CP/CPS and an always-offline, fully air-gapped root CA. Each root of trust is protected with a dedicated FIPS 140-2 Level 3 HSM and multilayered security in state-of-the-art facilities.
Scale up rapidly without the heavy lifting
No hardware necessary. We deploy your private PKI in a singletenant cloud environment with highly available, HSM-backed Issuing CAs, fully-redundant CRL infrastructure, and robust data backup and recovery services.

HOW IT WORKS
We build it
It's your PKI ­ we set up a dedicated offline root in a maximum-security facility.
We deploy it
Highly available and HSMbacked Issuing CAs run in a single-tenant cloud instance.
We maintain it
Our experts handle everything from CA and CRL maintenance to firewalls and patching.
You run it
Your teams issue, deploy, and manage all certificates from a single easy-to-use UI.

© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

Offload 24/7 PKI maintenance to our experts
Once your PKI is deployed, our skilled operations team provides 24x7x365 service monitoring and support, freeing up your team to drive more value for the business.

"The PKI SaaS solution delivered with agility. Easy to integrate and customize."
Cybersecurity Architect Healthcare

Orchestrate any key, any certificate from one console
Issue, manage, and automate the lifecycle of keys and certificates from a single web-based interface ­ whether issued from your hosted PKI, existing on-premise CAs, or your third-party CA vendors.

"The support staff that helped implement the managed PKI is very knowledgeable and responsive."
IT Architect Digital Banking Disruptor

© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

Integrate with your enterprise apps and workloads
Built-in Active Directory (AD) auto-enrollment via cloud gateway makes it fast and simple to issue certificates as if it were an on-premise PKI. Easy-to-use APIs and pre-built integrations allow you to plug your PKI into existing tools and applications.

Why Keyfactor

All-in-one solution
One vendor - combines fullymanaged PKI and certificate lifecycle automation.

Tested and proven
We're the most reliable and widely adopted PKI as-a-Service platform ­ since 2011.

No lock-in
You retain full control over root keys and recovery materials in escrow to avoid any lock-in.

Tenured PKI experts
Our roots started in PKI consulting ­ no one knows how to build and run PKI like we do.

Unmatched services
Fast SLA-driven response, SOC 2 Type II audited annually, and 99% support satisfaction.

Limitless scalability
Scale up easily with high-availability and geo-redundant options.

See it in action
Discover how Keyfactor makes PKI simple, scalable, and cost-effective.
© 2021 Keyfactor, Inc. All Rights Reserved | www.keyfactor.com

REQUEST DEMO

