Security Awareness Training and Simulated Phishing Platform
Helps you manage the ongoing problem of social engineering

HISH

KnowBe4 Security Awareness Training
Old-school security awareness training doesn't hack it anymore. Today, your employees are frequently exposed to sophisticated phishing and ransomware attacks.

Baseline Testing We provide baseline testing to assess the Phish-ProneTM percentage of your users through a free simulated phishing attack.
Train Your Users The world's largest library of security awareness training content; including interactive modules, videos, games, posters and newsletters. Automated training campaigns with scheduled reminder emails.
Phish Your Users Best-in-class, fully automated simulated phishing attacks, thousands of templates with unlimited usage, and community phishing templates.
See the Results Enterprise-strength reporting, showing stats and graphs for both training and phishing, ready for management. Show the great ROI!

ANAL

TRAIN

YZE

P

The System Really Works
With KnowBe4's massive database, we analyzed nearly 4 million users over the course of at least 12 months, and our 2020 research continues to uncover alarming results. The overall industry initial PhishProne percentage benchmark turned out to be a troubling 37.9%.
Fortunately, the data showed that this 37.9% can be brought down more than half to just 14.1% within 90 days after deploying new-school security awareness training. The results after one year show that by following these best practices, the final Phish-Prone percentage can be minimized to 4.7% on average.
See how your company's Phish-Prone percentage compares to your peers! The Industry Benchmarking feature is included with your subscription.

Find Out How Effective Our Security Awareness Training Is
KnowBe4 is the world's largest integrated platform for awareness training combined with simulated phishing attacks. Join our tens of thousands of customers who have mobilized their end users as a last line of defense.

KnowBe4 Security Awareness Training Features

Unlimited Use We offer three Training Access Levels, giving you access to our content library of 1,000+ items based on your subscription level. Unlimited access to all phishing features with flexible licensing. No artificial license ceilings and 10% overage allowance. Powerful new features added regularly.
Engaging, Interactive Browser-based Training The interactive training gives your users a fresh new learner experience that makes learning fun and engaging. Your users can choose the language they're most comfortable with for the entire training interface, helping deliver a more immersive training experience. With the configurable gamification feature, users can compete against their peers on leaderboards and earn badges while learning how to keep your organization safe from cyber attacks.
Brandable Content This self-service feature gives you the option to add branded custom content to the beginning and end of select KnowBe4 training modules. You can add your organization's branding elements including your logo, custom graphics, and corporate colors to tailor any messaging you want to deliver to your users.
Upload Your Own Content Want to supplement your KnowBe4 security awareness training content with your organization's custom training or other corporate training content? Upload your own SCORM-compliant training and video content and manage it alongside your KnowBe4 ModStore training all in one place--at no extra cost!
Assessments Find out where your users are in both security knowledge and security culture to help establish baseline security metrics. Use the skills-based assessment and the security culture survey to measure and monitor your users' security knowledge and sentiment to a securityaware culture over time.
Custom Phishing Templates and Landing Pages Apart from the thousands of easy-to-use system templates, you can customize scenarios based on personal information and include simulated attachments to create your own targeted spear phishing campaigns. Each Phishing Email Template can have its own Custom Landing Page, which allows for point-of-failure education.

Phish Alert Button KnowBe4's Phish Alert add-in button gives your users a safe way to forward email threats to the security team for analysis, and deletes the email from the user's inbox to prevent future exposure. All with just one click!
Social Engineering Indicators Patented technology turns every simulated phishing email into a tool IT can use to dynamically train employees by instantly showing them the hidden red flags they missed within that email.
User Management KnowBe4's Active Directory Integration allows you to easily upload user data and saves you time by eliminating the need to manually manage user changes. You can also leverage the Smart Groups feature to tailor and automate your phishing campaigns, training assignments and remedial learning based on your employees' behavior and user attributes.
Security Roles Allows you to define unlimited combinations of level access and administrative ability that you'd like specific user groups to have. With delegated permissions you have the ability to limit roles to only display specific data or allow for the phishing, training, and user management of specific groups.
Advanced Reporting Feature 60+ built-in reports provide holistic views and detailed reporting on your key awareness training indicators over time. Leverage Reporting APIs to pull data from your KnowBe4 console and for multiple accounts, Rollup Reporting makes it easy to view results in aggregate.
Virtual Risk OfficerTM The innovative Virtual Risk Officer (VRO) functionality helps you identify risk at the user, group and organizational level and enables you to make data-driven decisions when it comes to your security awareness plan.
PhishERTM As you phish and train your users they will start reporting potentially dangerous emails to your incident response team. The increase of this email traffic... can present a new problem! PhishER, is an optional add-on for managing the high volume of messages reported by your users and helps you identify and respond to email threats faster.

Did you know that 91% of successful data breaches started with a spear phishing attack?
Get your free phishing security test and find out what percentage of your employees are Phish-prone
www.KnowBe4.com/PST
KnowBe4, Inc. | 33 N Garden Ave, Suite 1200, Clearwater, FL 33755 | Tel: 855-KNOWBE4 (566-9234) | www.KnowBe4.com | Email: Sales@KnowBe4.com V080420
© 2020 KnowBe4, Inc. All rights reserved. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective companies.

