"

Success Story: Mary Kay
"We are very serious about cyber security and through our security ambassadors' program we continuously educate our people about cyber risk. LastPass is a core tenant in mitigating that risk." Jerry Patterson Security Engineer, Information Security Team, Mary Kay
Challenge
Recognized and renowned by millions, the Mary Kay brand sells its beauty products in over 40 countries, making it a global business.
With this large organizational footprint comes increased cyber risk due to the high volume of access points to the organization. For Mary Kay, this was true for its marketing department, particularly branding and social media. It needed a secure way to share credentials (internally and externally) with trusted partners, without putting its business ­ and its many sales representatives around the globe -- at risk. Similarly, Mary Kay's developers needed a solution to create one set of shared credentials that everyone could use, rather than creating a vast number of accounts to access the same project.
Lastly, Mary Kay needed to improve their overall security posture: "There were sticky notes under keyboards, stuck to monitors, or written in notebooks. We wanted to make passwords more complex," says Jerry. Like many large organizations, Jerry and the team knew the solution needed to integrate with their existing technology for a more seamless deployment.
Solution
Mary Kay evaluated different solutions, seeking out a tool that would provide a convenient way to create and manage passwords for its employees, and grant (and revoke) access to trusted partners, ultimately reducing the risk exposure of the business. The approach to finding the right solution was to start with the employees first and ensure they saw value in the tool, as this heavily influences adoption and usage.
In 2015, Mary Kay choose LastPass with the plan to "start small, and based on adoption and usage, grow accordingly," says Jerry. "Now we have employees asking if they can have LastPass within their teams and departments, which is a huge positive." Like many enterprises, Mary Kay sought a password management solution that could balance the highest level of security with a simple user experience.
LastPass.com

As with many enterprises, the ability to integrate their password manager with other security solutions was critical. Mary Kay uses LastPass alongside Microsoft SSO. "Every application we onboard either needs to work with Microsoft SSO or with LastPass. This reduces that volume of passwords that employees have." Integrating security tools ensures that every access point and login is protected, with password management securing any applications that are not protected with SSO.
Results
Since its introduction in 2015, LastPass is now central to the Mary Kay cyber security strategy. "LastPass is one of the applications our teams come looking for, we no longer need to promote it, and that's why adoption is over 70%. It's an easy win for the security team and its easy for the employees to create and manage complex passwords that they don't need to remember," says Jerry. Specifically leveraging the LastPass application across all devices is a great feature, but the browser extension has been a big winner with employees. "It makes people's lives so much easier," continues Jerry.
As part of the security awareness program, the Mary Kay security team sends monthly communications to keep employees abreast of the current security landscape. LastPass is included in almost every email.
Mary Kay drives security even further by encouraging employees to practice safe password behavior both professionally and personally, through LastPass' Families as a Benefit, which provides a complementary Families account for employees. "We can help all the people in the family to be more secure, which is brilliant," adds Jerry.
When asked about other positive aspects of the partnership between LastPass and Mary Kay, Jerry is quick to answer: "Our Customer Success Manager is a great guy, we can lean on him, and he is brilliant to work with!"

Get in Touch

Learn how Mary Kay increased their password security using LastPass.

©2022 LastPass US L.P. All rights reserved. | 03.09.2022/LMI2315/PDF

