IR2 : The game-changing incident readiness and response solution

Solution Brief

Organizations rely on Mitiga technology and services to lower the impact of cyber breaches and optimize their cloud security incident readiness and resilience by dramatically accelerating investigation, response, and time to recovery for cloud and hybrid environments.

IR2 Delivers

Dramatically faster time to recovery with reduced business impact for incidents

Visibility and transparency into investigation via Crisis Management Dashboard

Shared responsibility for incident preparation and recovery

Continuous commitment to increasing your resiliency to cyberattacks

IR2 is a game-changing incident readiness and response solution that prepares an organization for its worst moment: a breach.
By proactively collecting and analyzing cloud forensics data and using a dynamic-readiness approach, Mitiga automates the majority of the forensics process, providing our expert crisis management team the tools needed to begin incident investigation immediately, without time-consuming data acquisition delays.
Mitiga's shared responsibility approach, automated investigation tools, crisis management platform, and world-class incident response team accelerates the investigation, response, and recovery stages and increases our customers' resiliency for a future attack.

www.mitiga.io

Copyright © 2021 ­ Mitiga Security, Inc.

IR2 Includes
Forensics Data
Capturing comprehensive cloud forensic data, combined with our ability to store, process, and analyze that data quickly and efficiently, results in fast incident resolution.

Crisis Management Dashboard
Continuous visibility into the incident across people, teams, time, and 3rd party organizations in a single place to allow rapid and accurate decision making during a crisis.

Expert Incident Responders
Access to world-class incident responders with expertise in complex cloud environments, available 24/7, accelerates investigation and insight.

How It Works
Choose the annual subscription that best fits your needs. All subscriptions include forensic collection, storage, and analysis; access to our Crisis Management Dashboard during an active incident; a quarterly meeting with your dedicated squad; review of IR plans and procedures; an annual readiness review; an annual tabletop exercise; and incident response support.
IR Is Different in the Cloud
Cloud environments require a new approach to incident readiness and response. It's challenging to gather forensic data retroactively, and many cloud providers store logs for only a short period. In agile, dynamic environments, you need a cloud-based platform and cloud security expertise to prepare for and manage cybersecurity incidents.
When You Need IR2
· When you're proactively building out your organization`s cloud incident response and readiness plans. · During digital transformation and cloud migration projects. · When you're experiencing a breach or ransomware attack and need immediate help. · If you're a security-first organization with a large cloud footprint.

Mitiga's technology and services lowerthe impact ofcyber breachesand optimize readiness for cloud and hybrid incidents and accelerate both response and recovery times when incidents occur. Importantly, Mitiga's readiness prioritization also increases resiliency for future incidents. Mitiga's shared-responsibility model is unique. Unlike others, who charge additional fees for incident response and recovery, Mitiga subscribers face no add-on fees.
For more information, visit www.mitiga.io or email us at info@mitiga.io US +1 (888) 598-4654 | UK +44 (20) 3974 1616 | IL + 972-3-978-6654 | SG +65-3138-3094

Copyright © 2021 ­ Mitiga Security, Inc.

