MONOLITH MIDDLEWARE MODERNIZATION
From Monolith Middleware to Microservices -- A guide.
Oracle SOA  Oracle BPEL  IBM BPM  Oracle ADF  JBOSS Implementation




ARE YOU EXPERIENCING THESE TOP SIGNALS OF UNCERTAIN FUTURE?

Time-consuming

Middleware

Too much spend on

deployments

Middleware

licenses and upgrades
?

Struggle to build new features quickly as per changing market demands

Trouble nding specialized and skilled Middleware consultants

fi 
 
 
 
 
 
 


MONOLITH MIDDLEWARE MODERNIZATION

2



 


THE PROBLEM
You identify a customer pain point. You validate and plan to
3



Monolith Architecture

User Interface

Business Logic

Data Access Layer

Microservices Architecture

Microservice Microservice

User Interface

Microservice

Microservice

Microservice

THE ANALYSIS
Going back to the example in the problem statement, let us analyze how architecture plays a role in delivering the desired customer feature, on time, at scale.

Monolith

Development & Testing

 Can't work with new tech and tools  Need specialized skills for old tech  Any change requires testing of entire app  Low productivity due to interdependencies

Deployment

 Must redeploy entire app on each update  Any change can take days or weeks to
deploy

Microservices

SLOW FAST

 Free to use different tech per service  Easier to nd skilled professionals  Any change can be tested within a service  High productivity due to modular distribution

SLOW FAST

 Only deploy the updated service  Rapid and continuous deployments

Scaling

 Scaling part of the system is impossible  Di cult to scale when app becomes large

LOW HIGH

 Each service can be scaled independently  Can be scaled horizontally and vertically

Maintenance

 Hard to debug and troubleshoot issues  Any leak / bug can bring down the entire
application
 Interdependencies make it hard to reuse
parts of the application

HIGH LOW

 Easy to debug due to better fault isolation  Reduced downtime due to resilient
services
 Services can be reused in other projects,
reducing cost

ffi 
 fi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


MONOLITH MIDDLEWARE MODERNIZATION

4

THE STRATEGY
Your reasons to move to microservices could be one or more: reduced costs, operational e

Since software doesn't age well, we've created a repeatable proprietary process that delivers the goods in a short time (in most cases, under 6 months!)

Rearchitect
Microservices Cohesive patterns Cloud-native

AI Automation
Code Test frameworks Tests / Results

Training & KT
Talent retention Agility Maintainability

AI -- Neural network metadata
Analyze with AI

Transpiler Proof & Quality Business Parity
AI / ML Training Model

CI / CD Platform #AIOps #AISecurity
Deployment


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


5

APPENDIX: CASES
We have helped transform monolith to microservices for multiple clients. The transformation using our proprietary AI / ML SaaS product, IONATETM APPDATE -- typically happens within 6 months. Our engine is mature and ready to convert most of the popular monolith technologies -- Oracle SOA, Oracle BPEL, IBM BPM, Oracle ADF, JBOSS implementations (JSF), etc.
Case | Oracle Middleware to Microservices

Case | IBM BPM, Oracle SOA to Microservices

MONOLITH MIDDLEWARE MODERNIZATION

6

OUR ADVANTAGE

Time to Market
Our automation ensures agility and a faster go-live!

Future-proof
Our automation provides scalability, fault-tolerance, resilience, and performance

Productivity
Automation increases developer velocity and consequently productivity

Cost-friendly
Our platform eliminates the need for recurring licensing and maintenance costs

And we maintain 100% business parity, which means we absolutely preserve:

100% of Data

100% of Business Logic

100% of Business Processes

Other Legacy in our repertoire
Thick clients -- Oracle Forms, Visual Basic, Delphi, Powerbuilder, Centura, Clarion COBOL / CICS / RPG -- Mainframe, Mid-range, Fujitsu, Unisys, HP, CA

Global HQ San Francisco sales@ionate.io www.ionate.io



About Ionate Ionate provides an endgame (turnkey solution) for Digital Transformation with its proprietary AI / ML platform and products. Enterprises can not only modernize their legacy systems, but also operate on highperforming infrastructure and scale their business, with security, predictive forecasting, and data protection.
Ionate is a registered trademark of Ionate, Inc. All other trademarks or service marks are the property of their respective holders and are hereby acknowledged. 2021 Ionate, Inc. All rights reserved.



