Morphisec | 1
HOW TO STOP RANSOMWARE AND OTHER ADVANCED ATTACKS WITH PREVENTION-FIRST SECURITY
PREVENT RANSOMWARE AND UNKNOWN ATTACKS BEFORE THEY HAPPEN WITH MORPHISEC AND MICROSOFT DEFENDER FOR ENDPOINT

DON'T WAIT TO ACT. TAKE A PROACTIVE STANCE.

Contents
Don't wait to act. Take a proactive stance................. 2
Prevent attacks and advanced threats.................. 4
Gain visibility and control ................................... 6
Optimize your resources............................... 8
Case study: Radwell............ 10
A proactive prevention of the most advanced and unknown threats......... 12

PROTECT YOUR ORGANIZATION WITH A PREVENTION-FIRST SECURITY APPROACH
As remote work continues to grow, bad actors have shifted their strategies to exploit an ever-widening security gap that takes advantage of distributed teams and increasingly vulnerable networks. Organizations today face major security challenges. And attackers are only becoming more sophisticated over time, changing their tactics to outsmart predictable defense mechanisms.
· Unknown attacks are one of the most dangerous threats to organizations today, including ransomware, unpatched vulnerabilities, new malware, and variants of known attacks.
· The average time to detect and contain a data breach that is caused by a malicious attack is 315 days.1
· By 2031, ransomware is expected to attack a business, consumer, or device every 2 seconds. That is up 11 seconds from 2021.2
An integrated, layered approach to cybersecurity that emphasizes prevention first is critical. Without a fundamental change, attackers will continue to prevail.

Morphisec | 3

WHAT IF YOU COULD GAIN FULL PROTECTIVE COVERAGE BEFORE AN ATTACK IS LAUNCHED?

Morphisec takes a prevention-first approach with its Moving Target Defense solution. Rather than waiting for an attack to happen before identifying and mitigating the threat, Morphisec's powerful Moving Target Defense technology stops an attack first with no remediation needed. It

seamlessly integrates with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and Defender Antivirus technology to help organizations decrease risk by stopping advanced threats preemptively, providing the best security stack available.

Prevent attacks and advanced threats
Stop known and unknown threats at the earliest stage of the attack lifecycle.

Gain visibility
and control
View security posture in real time and harden your security infrastructure with a powerful and efficient UI.

Optimize your resources
Reduce costs and manual efforts with an automated solution.

LEARN MORE

LEARN MORE

LEARN MORE

PREVENT ATTACKS AND ADVANCED THREATS

PREVENT THREATS WITHOUT CONTINUOUS MANUAL MONITORING

Traditional means of cybersecurity that focus on detecting and responding to threats as they occur are no longer sufficient for the modern hybrid enterprise. These detection-centric tools are not only costly and require professional management, but they also favor today's expert cyberattackers and leave companies unprotected.

What if there was a different way you could ensure continuous coverage? With the Morphisec Moving Target Defense solution, organizations can proactively block evasive threats with no detection system involved. Prevent ransomware and other advanced threats automatically to gain greater peace of mind.

"Morphisec makes it super easy for our IT team to prevent breaches of critical systems. It is a one-click install, then it takes care of the rest. If we have to evaluate anything, they will notify us. After it has been prevented, we can jump in and release it or create a new rule."
­ Brian L., director of technical services and information security, SECURA Insurance

Morphisec | 5

GAIN VISIBILITY AND CONTROL
ONE AGENT AND ONE DASHBOARD FOR COMPLETE PROTECTION AND SECURITY MANAGEMENT
Morphisec provides a single console for enterprise-level visibility and control over native window security controls like Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. With Morphisec's consolidated attack dashboard, you can view every event blocked by Morphisec and Microsoft with ease. View full attack timeline and correlate events to make smarter, faster decisions.

Morphisec | 7
Morphisec and Microsoft
Morphisec is complementary to Microsoft solutions and operates smoothly with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and Microsoft Defender Antivirus.

OPTIMIZE YOUR RESOURCES
CUT COSTS AND TIME SPENT ON MANUAL EFFORTS TO PROTECT AGAINST CYBERATTACKS
Morphisec offers a single-agent, prevention-focused solution that does not require an organization to leverage other services or remediation. Morphisec Moving Target Defense ransomware prevention technology is simple to install and integrate with your native OS to simultaneously reduce manual efforts and licensing costs. Conserve your IT team's time and resources by reducing false positives and eliminating alert fatigue.
Why Morphisec?
· Easy to use with no prior expertise required. · 8 million end points and servers protected by Morphisec technology. · 5,000+ protected enterprises. · 15,000+ ransomware, malware, and fileless attacks prevented per day.

Morphisec | 9

CASE STUDY: RADWELL

SITUATION
Radwell is a privately owned enterprise that provides new and used surplus industrial electronic equipment. Radwell maintains specialized industrial electronic equipment to many manufacturing companies, including automakers, chemical plants, food processing facilities, and steel plants, among many others.

CHALLENGE
Radwell pays close attention to major cyberattacks that make the news. Its founders and board fixated on the risk of a breach by fileless and evasive threats, and they turned security into a key component of their business continuity planning and risk management process. As a global company, Radwell also needs to comply with GDPR and PCI standards when it comes to data security and privacy. These requirements push Radwell to consider how to best protect customers.

SOLUTION
Radwell had recently adopted Microsoft's holistic security strategy and wanted a solution that had a tight integration with their existing Microsoft Defender for Endpoint license. After a rigorous period of testing all the major endpoint protection vendors for protection against fileless attacks, evasive malware, and in-memory exploits, Radwell selected Morphisec for its facilities. With Morphisec Moving Target Defense integrated so well with Microsoft, Radwell was able to get a frictionless experience. John Janthor, VP of Information Technology, Radwell International, said that Morphisec integrated so well that it appeared like they were using one solution from a single vendor.

RESULT
By incorporating Morphisec and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, Radwell can protect against unknown fileless attacks and in-memory threats as well as gain full visibility within the Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Security Center. Through Morphisec's seamless integration with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, the Radwell security team can now focus on high-level threats.

Morphisec | 11

A PROACTIVE PREVENTION OF THE MOST ADVANCED AND UNKNOWN THREATS

Morphisec | 13
Morphisec uses a prevention-first approach when it comes to protecting your company. This helps your organization preemptively protect endpoints from all known and unknown exploit-based attacks without requiring administration or generating high costs. Morphisec is recognized as a member of the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association, partnering with Microsoft to deliver enterprise-grade security solutions for enhanced protection.
Want to learn more about how you can prevent ransomware and other advanced attacks and secure your organization in a cost and resource efficient manner?
VISIT MORPHISEC.COM
1Cost of a Data Breach Report 2020, IBM 2Global Ransomware Damage Costs Predicted To Exceed $265 Billion By 2031, Cybersecurity Ventures Copyright © 2022 Morphisec Ltd. and Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

