5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY
Introduction....................................................................................................................................................................3 ONE | How Locking Down Admin Privileges Offers Expansive MITRE Coverage.............................................5 TWO | Increase the Efficacy of Vulnerability Resolution with Virtual Patching.................................................7 THREE | Carefully Examine Spend to Eliminate Redundancies and Maximize Value.........................................9 FOUR | Make Security Awareness More than an Annual Training................................................................... 11 FIVE | Deploy a Zero Trust Defensive Strategy on the Endpoint (Too).......................................................... 13 Risk Reduction Doesn't Mean Compromising Between Spend and Effectiveness............................................. 14 About MORPHISEC...................................................................................................................................................... 15
2 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

INTRODUCTION
One of the common misnomers in cybersecurity planning is that every organization has the budget necessary to deploy the most advanced tools and the highest-end countermeasures to secure their critical infrastructure. The reality is almost exactly the opposite. Most companies don't have unlimited resources when it comes to their cybersecurity posture. If anything, these resource-constrained or "lean" security teams need to protect themselves against attacks without spending beyond their means. Sometimes these lean teams don't even have dedicated security staff, but instead make cybersecurity a responsibility of an IT generalist.
The cybersecurity skills shortage in the United States doesn't help matters. Research shows the US has less than half the trained cybersecurity professionals it needs to keep up with demand. One survey found that 70% of respondents think their company suffers from talent shortages in terms of cybersecurity. Shortages could apply to the number of staff, a lack of advanced/ specialized skills, or both. In all cases, though, limited talent and tight budgets put defenders at a distinct disadvantage against a growing army of cybercriminals.

71%
of executives surveyed think a cybersecurity talent gap causes them "direct and measurable damage"

Despite some indications the talent shortage is getting better, it will take time to train the millions of professionals currently missing from the job market. Due to a relatively small supply of trained cybersecurity workers-estimates suggest there's only one trained professional for every 10 businesses in the US--lean security teams with only one or even no dedicated security resources are common. Even when companies have the resources to potentially hire an in-house team or expand their current one, the demand for talent far exceeds the supply and will for years to come. Lean, resource-constrained security teams aren't going anywhere, calling pointed attention to the need for other ways to solve for the increasing risk.
Despite the reality of budget shortfalls and talent shortages, the requirements to secure a business continue to grow. Traditional

solutions designed to enhance security, such as EDR, require "eyes on the glass" to triage alerts as soon as they appear. At a fundamental level, this means that better security has historically meant throwing more people at the problem. No wonder 71% of executives surveyed think a cybersecurity talent gap causes them "direct and measurable damage."
That damage will only cut deeper as cyber threats become more ruthless. But the situation isn't hopeless. Lean security teams may not be able to increase their ranks anytime soon or take their attention away from security alerts (many of them false). They can, however, do far more with what they already have. An analysis of the MITRE ATT&CK framework, in fact, shows just how many techniques are prevented through the application of no- or low-cost security tools.

3 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

An impressive 34 percent of attack techniques in the MITRE framework are mitigated by taking security actions that require no extra cost. Of the 178 techniques MITRE includes, this means 60 specific threat actor techniques are addressed, substantially reducing attack risk for lean security teams.

MITRE ATT&CK Coverage

60 TECHNIQUES
mitigated with no-cost actions

In this whitepaper, we will share five specific strategies that security teams of any size can employ and the coverage they provide. It doesn't take a massive staff or a coterie of specialists to effectively defend against many of today's worst cyber threats. Managed security

providers aren't necessary either (though they can still be helpful). With a series of proactive steps, any company can build an effective (or impactful) security posture that looms much larger than the team behind it. Powerful enough, even, to contend with today's worst threats.

4 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

1

HOW LOCKING DOWN ADMIN PRIVILEGES OFFERS EXPANSIVE MITRE COVERAGE

The MITRE ATT&CK framework provides a critical roadmap for lean security teams. It meticulously breaks down the tactics and techniques that hackers utilize regardless of what attack they employ. By exposing the pathways that hackers take to reach their final target and the tricks they use along the way, MITRE helps security teams of any size defend their critical systems.
Privilege escalation is one of the tactics the framework highlights, referring to any attempt by hackers to ultimately achieve administrative privileges. Bad actors can use privilege escalation to move vertically through an IT infrastructure and seize greater control or access. This tactic also enables hackers to enter through a weak point and move horizontally to reach other parts of the infrastructure. MITRE identifies dozens of different techniques that hackers may use to escalate privileges. Collectively, these techniques function like a skeleton key that hackers can use to move through locked doors at will and reach whatever target they please.
To put into perspective the importance of privilege escalation, estimates suggest

as many as 80% of all attacks utilize this technique in some form. Examples include when hackers jump from a virtual machine into the hypervisor it runs on, seize domain administrator access on a workstation, or root out misconfigurations in public clouds they can use to change settings. In all cases, the barriers meant to keep hackers out prove more porous than expected. But that can (and must) be prevented.
But reduced risk of privilege escalation isn't the only benefit of careful privileged account management. Using MITRE's free ATT&CK Navigator, privileged account management can mitigate dozens of techniques across most tactics, including initial access, execution, persistence, and more. The best part about this is that privileged account management is a free action that every company can take right now.
It's also incredibly effective. Lean security teams can throw roadblocks in front of attacks (up to 80% of them) by carefully managing administrative privileges. This doesn't take into account that 30 techniques in the MITRE framework are mitigated by properly managing administrative privileges.

30 TECHNIQUES
mitigated by limiting administrative privileges
5 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY
The image below shows the coverage gained by managing administrative privileges according to MITRE ATT&CK Navigator.
MITRE ATT&CK Coverage

Stripping admin rights away from anyone who doesn't need them means one less privilege for hackers to escalate. Granted, they might find another avenue to exploit ­ but more likely they will abandon the attack as soon as they encounter an unexpected obstacle and seek out a simpler target instead. Multi-factor authentication can also help prevent privilege escalation, as can an effective employee training/education campaign about how to avoid opening the door for hackers. Above all, though, lean security teams need a systematic approach.
Managing administrative privileges across all of IT can be complex for security teams with a small staff. Things get even more complicated when locking down administrative privileges has the unintended consequence of interrupting operations; cybersecurity can't compromise business continuity.
For lean security teams to juggle all these competing forces, it helps to map the IT infrastructure. Identify all assets involved, determine how they affect business continuity, and investigate what risks they create in terms of privilege escalation. Having a clear understanding of how users and systems impact the risk of an organization will help prioritize prevention controls and remediation efforts. Said differently, a good map makes it clear where to put the biggest defenses in place so that lean security teams can make the most of the resources they have available.

6 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

2

INCREASE THE EFFICACY OF VULNERABILITY RESOLUTION WITH VIRTUAL PATCHING

14 TECHNIQUES
mitigated by regularly patching software

A study from 2019 found that in 60% of the attacks examined, hackers took advantage of a vulnerability that could have been patched... but wasn't. The 2017 Equifax attack started this way, along with countless others over the years. That won't stop anytime soon because exploiting unpatched vulnerabilities is one of the easiest yet most effective exploits ­ an unlocked door that everyone knows about.
It's a race against time to lock those doors by installing patches, but lean security teams are the least equipped to sprint. A systematic patching process involves extensive input from the security team. That helps explain why the average time to install patches ranges from 60 days on the low end to 150 days on the high end. Given the risk of infection from an unpatched vulnerability, it would seem that more IT and security teams would focus on ensuring all their software is upto-date. The numbers suggest otherwise.
The same 2019 study showed that 69% of participants planned to hire at least five people to handle patching at a cost of $650,000 to each company. But many companies can't afford that expense, let alone find that much available talent. Those are often the ones taking close to four

months to get patches installed ­ making them low-hanging fruit in the eyes of hackers eager to exploit unpatched vulnerabilities.
Too often, security teams spend their time managing, configuring, and dealing with alerts from expensive detection tools. The irony is that if the time was spent on maintaining a proper patching regimen, they could prevent the same attacks that those tools are designed to detect. As the MITRE ATT&CK Navigator shows (next page), applying software updates can address several possible attack vectors. In total, 14 techniques are mitigiated by regularly patching software.
Some will rely on staff for patching, but lean security teams have another option: virtual patching. Unlike traditional patching, which makes changes to vulnerable code, virtual patches protect around the code. They implement various rules designed to deflect attacks and shield vulnerabilities, which buys the security team some time until it can implement a traditional patch. Compared to emergency patching, which can be highly disruptive when it means suddenly suspending operations, the virtual alternative offers superior speed, flexibility, and costeffectiveness.

7 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

There are numerous ways to apply virtual patches. Some solutions compare network packets against a list of known vulnerabilities or rely on detection paired with vulnerability scanning. In both cases, these options can't recognize (or stop) zero-days that haven't been updated into the system yet. Worse, they can't stop threats that have gone months or years without being discovered. These virtual patches shrink the security gap without sealing it all the way.

Too often, security teams spend their time managing, configuring, and dealing with alerts from expensive detection tools
MITRE ATT&CK Coverage

Morphisec Guard takes a different approach to virtual patching ­ one that's ideal for lean security teams. Instead of building rules around an unpatched endpoint, Morphisec Guard alters the attack pathway and obscures the final target: the application memory. A vulnerability may remain unpatched or even unrecognized. Neither matters, though, because even if an attack (new, old, or otherwise) gains entry, it gets lost on the way to its intended destination. Most virtual patches build a bunker around vulnerabilities; Morphisec Guard applies evasive maneuvers.

In the process, Morphisec Guard gives lean security teams two things: time and confidence. Time to patch things when the resources allow instead of under emergency conditions. And confidence that unpatched vulnerabilities, whether known or not, won't create unexpected problems. To put it differently, patching runs according to the security team's schedule instead of the attacker's agenda.

8 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

3

CAREFULLY EXAMINE SPEND TO ELIMINATE REDUNDANCIES AND MAXIMIZE VALUE

Cybersecurity spending (and staffing) varies widely depending on a company's size, industry, and digital footprint. It's unclear how much the average security team spends and on what. But that's fine. Benchmarking one team against another matters less than scrutinizing every dollar of spending within a specific budget.
Since lean security teams have tighter budgets, both in terms of size and scalability, each investment needs to count. Wasted spending doesn't just result in unnecessary or inadequate protection--it also diverts money away from tools and solutions that could upgrade security. In many cases, lean security teams don't need money to buy more software. They just need to make better use of their existing budget by swapping in cost-free alternatives where possible, eliminating reiterative or ineffective solutions, and investing in what works in areas of remaining risk.

Start by taking a hard look at every line item in the security budget. Is every cost justifiable? Is any cost ambiguous? Excluding items in the budget for compliance reasons, any uncertain spending should be singled out for further review. As part of that review, try to quantify the risk reduction each solution provides. Does it outweigh the cost? If the value of any line item is underwhelming or unclear compared to a cost-free alternative, then it's not an asset.
Similarly, lean security teams should explore opportunities to consolidate or integrate existing solutions rather than adding niche products to an increasingly atomized security stack. In many cases, solutions abound because each one checks a specific compliance box--e.g., for app control or URL filtering. Many of these solutions are now redundant thanks to OS-native security tools and other solutions with built-in capabilities that check more boxes with fewer products.

26 TECHNIQUES
mitigated by using OS controls

9 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

As the budget review continues, focus on the indirect and hidden costs of the tools currently in place or under consideration. They can be substantial. Those costs include deployment, management and operation (especially with EDR), decline in IT performance, and more. For new solutions, evaluate these criteria by asking for a demonstration. If it takes an extensive setup, operating it won't be much easier. Asking other users about their experience can also be a valuable source of first-hand information. SMBs would do well to spend time looking on SpiceWorks forums, and Reddit is a goldmine of community feedback. You can even read reviews at places such as Gartner Peer Insights or IT Central Station.
Don't overlook the obvious, either. Most companies run on Windows, which now comes with a robust suite of OS-native security tools: antivirus, device controls, personal firewall, and disk encryption. Lean security teams don't have to pay for these free tools, and testing agencies have found that free tools like Microsoft Defender are as good as or better than thirdparty solutions. Making better use of a security budget isn't hard when free, high-quality replacement tools already exist within the physical and virtual walls of the organization. The ATT&CK Navigator shows the benefit of using built-in systems like these to protect your organization, with 26 techniques mitigated through using OS-native solutions.

After moving to free, built-in security tools, the next step should be to prioritize visibility and control. One of the biggest barriers to adoption for OS-native tools like Microsoft Defender AV is that they often don't provide enterprise-level dashboards for centralized administration. Solutions like our own Morphisec Guard, which is tightly interwoven into the Microsoft Windows ecosystem,
MITRE ATT&CK Coverage

enhance that visibility and control by adding an enterprise-level management dashboard that allows you deeper insight into Defender events. Additionally, a tool like Morphisec Guard often adds additional protection against evasive malware. The result: cyber risk plummets just as fast as the amount of work required of the security team.

10 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

4 MAKE SECURITY AWARENESS MORE THAN AN ANNUAL TRAINING

14 TECHNIQUES
mitigated through regular user training

Effective cybersecurity always comes down to your people. The people working for your company who need extensive training to see and stop the cyber attacks targeted at them. And the people on your security team who carry the heavy burden of protecting everyone and everything. If these people break down, so does your cybersecurity.
Supporting employees on the front lines of cybersecurity is both an imperative and a sound investment. If an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, investments in people cost far less than what they return; one study showed that even the least effective security training programs result in a sevenfold ROI. Another study linked these programs with a 70% reduction in cyber risk. Welltrained employees make attacks less likely to succeed and less destructive when they do, just as under-prepared employees do the opposite. Any investment in cybersecurity training is money well spent. Fully 14 threat actor techniques are mitigated with security awareness training.

Supporting employees on the front lines of cybersecurity is both an imperative and a sound investment
How to approach security awareness training is a big enough subject for another whitepaper. That being said, there are two key components: persistence and variety. Employees need to receive training during onboarding and regularly afterwards to keep governance top-of-mind and continuous. Just as importantly, they need diverse training experiences to keep it from becoming a stale exercise with diminishing returns.

11 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

MITRE ATT&CK Coverage
Above you can see the impact of security awareness training in the MITRE ATT&CK Navigator.

Members of the lean security team also need regular check-ins. Since this team strives to use resources efficiently, especially human resources, investigate how much time people spend on what tasks. The answers may be surprising. Part of being a lean team is making sure staff stay focused on the strategic tasks that collapse risk, not learning a complicated new tool or responding to endless false alarms coming from the EDR. Just because the team seems busy doesn't mean they're working effectively. Too often, low-value tasks consume time and attention because that's what they require: eyes on the screen and hands on the keyboard.
Whether or not labor-intensive solutions are worth keeping should be investigated in the previous step. If they put too much strain on the security team (without delivering adequate value), make sure the replacement doesn't do the same. Introduce as much proven automation and self-prevention hardening as possible while simultaneously evaluating solutions based on the amount of manual input required. Introducing more noise in the form of alerts and alarms doesn't help. Rather, it creates extra stress and wastes important resources, namely time and staff.

12 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

5

DEPLOY A ZERO TRUST DEFENSIVE STRATEGY ON THE ENDPOINT (TOO)

Years of cybersecurity failures have taught security teams to trust no one. In 2020, 72% of organizations surveyed planned to either assess their capacity for zero trust or implement this capability in some form. Zero trust shrinks the attack surface to thwart an impressive number of attacks ­ making it ideal for lean security teams who need to use their resources preventing attacks rather than mitigating the damage, which involves a much larger lift.
A comprehensive zero trust defensive strategy integrates the most important layers of defense: identity, network, and endpoint at run-time. By requiring traffic at all of these points to prove their credentials, zero-trust exposes attacks earlier in the attack pathway and denies entry. The appeal of this approach, in addition to its effectiveness, is how little it requires from the security team. They will need to review an incident response. Otherwise, though, careful access controls do the hard work of keeping hackers out. By implementing a zero trust defensive strategy, lean security teams add the additional hardening they need to reduce their breach risk.

Some form of zero trust may already be in place in terms of identity and access management, as well as network security. The missing piece is to apply zero trust to endpoints. More and more, hackers use endpoints as their access point, in no small part because endpoints have yet to be fortified with zero trust. The sudden shift to remote work because of COVID-19 didn't help the situation either. Massive numbers of new, insecure endpoints became a prime target for hackers.
Zero trust on the endpoint is the most important, yet overlooked, component of a zero trust strategy. Attacks on the endpoint don't have to reveal themselves until they're already loaded in memory and performing the malicious action. Supply chain attacks are a perfect example. A trusted user would bring a trusted

process into memory, and only once it's past the "zero trust zones" of identity and network zero trust would the attack proceed. As a result, not applying zero trust on the endpoint creates the risk of an attack progressing once it's able to sneak past network security and identity and access management solutions.
Lean security teams will need to address these endpoint risks, especially as remote work has become part of the new normal. Zero trust on the endpoint does that while "closing the loop" in terms of access. Anyone who wants inside must get permission first. Granted, zero trust can't keep out every single threat. But it can stop enough of them to significantly lighten the load on a security team. And when teams do need to address an attack, they have ample resources on hand to move fast and fight hard.

In 2020, 72% of organizations surveyed planned to either assess their capacity for zero trust or implement this capability in some form

13 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY

RISK REDUCTION DOESN'T MEAN COMPROMISING BETWEEN SPEND AND EFFECTIVENESS

The best security teams aren't defined by their size. The amount they spend or the tools they use don't distinguish the elite either. For those that take cybersecurity seriously, only one metric matters: risk reduction. Taking the no-cost (or very low-cost) actions described in this whitepaper can substantially reduce the attack surface for a lean security team, leading to a more secure organization overall.
Effective teams stop more attacks more of the time regardless of whether they're lean or have all the budget, tools and personnel they could ever need. Cybersecurity isn't an arms race; having the most guns or the biggest bombs doesn't equate to the strongest defense. Rather, it's about using the resources at hand to outmatch whatever threat looms on the horizon. Some lean teams excel at this, just as some large teams fail at it.
The point we want to leave you with is that lean security teams aren't at a disadvantage. Talent shortages, budget shortfalls, and hyper-aggressive hackers don't mean the certain failure of small teams. Likewise, it doesn't take a massive influx of money, expertise, or other resources to shore up cybersecurity. Small teams have most of the assets they need already.
All that's missing is a change in mindset: Lean doesn't mean running at a bare minimum; it means running with optimal efficiency.

60 TECHNIQUES
mitigated with no-cost actions

14 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

5 COST-FREE WAYS FOR ENTERPRISES TO IMPROVE SECURITY
ABOUT MORPHISEC FUNDAMENTALLY ALTERING THE CYBERSECURITY LANDSCAPE Morphisec is transforming endpoint security with our pioneering Moving Target Defense. Our solutions deliver operationally simple, proactive prevention unbound by the limits of detection and prediction. We protect businesses around the globe from the most dangerous and sophisticated cyberattacks immediately, efficiently and absolutely.
15 © 2021 Morphisec Inc. | www.morphisec.com

