Empowering the Convergence of Voice, Collaboration & Security
Enhance your existing UC / CC Infrastructure with ease.

© 2022 Mutare, Inc.® All Rights Reserved.

mutare.com

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Empower Your Enterprise Voicemail

Short Description

Highlights

When you empower your enterprise voicemail, you are making a choice that communication matters, that responsiveness is a priority, that it is important to pay attention to the details in your quest to achieve transformative experiences.

A Simple, Mobile Experience
Natural Language Transcription
1
Context via CRM & Outlook Integrations
Clarity Thru Unified Messaging
Accessible Voice Recordings
We Play Nice with Others
2
Administration in a Snap

https://www.mutare.com/voice/

Mutare Voice is an enterprise-class solution that reimagines business voicemail.

3

Traditional voicemail captures call recordings and stores them in a silo, requiring users to

dial in to access their messages.

Mutare Voice unleashes voicemail to enable improved communication, faster response times and more informed decisions by empowering voicemail to become an active component of your intelligent collaboration strategy. Our industry-leading unified messaging solution allows users to receive voicemail messages in real time by mobile phone, through text and through email. Once received, messages include: a link to stream the call recording, a readable transcription of the message, detailed contact information pulled from CRM / MS Outlook, relevant contact insights and message sentiment. Ultimately, Mutare Voice elevates voicemail to be truly actionable.

1 Context via CRM & Outlook Integration 2 Natural Language Transcription 3 Easy to use Controls

Simplify Your Enterprise Notifications

Short Description
When you need to get the word out, you need the right tool. Mutare has a family of powerful, simple to use solutions that enable enterprise clients to communicate quickly to a wide range of target audiences, while leveraging the most effective channels for the situation.

Highlights Secure Enterprise Messaging App (Alert) Powerful Customer Outreach (Reach) Simple & Fast Mass Notification (Cast) Robust Enterprise Text (Engage) Comforting Family Update (Status)

https://www.mutare.com/text/

Select the right tool for your communication challenge as our broad range of solutions enable you to connect and communicate through any channel, to any audience and with standard or secure messaging. Additionally, our solutions empower communications in any form: 1- way, 1-way with receiver acknowledgment, or 2-way closed loop. Your search for a toolbox that contains all you need for enterprise messaging and notifications is now over. Get to know Mutare Text.

Get the word out to any audience!

One

Family

Team

Customers

Employees

Multiple Groups

© 2022 Mutare, Inc.® All Rights Reserved.

Mass Communication

mutare.com

Eliminate Unwanted Voice Traffic

Short Description
Enterprise-class software built to provide multiple layers of protection against unwanted traffic. We create a barrier at the network edge, ensuring that malicious and nefarious traffic does not gain access to your network.
https://www.mutare.com/voice-traffic-filter/

Highlights Most Powerful Tool on the Market
5-Layers of Protection
Stop Threats at the Network Edge
Immediately Remove Nefarious & Nuisance Calls (Robocalls, Spoof, Vishing, Spam..)
"Do No Harm" Mandate
Open Architecture for Simple Integration
(Avaya, Cisco, Microsoft, Mitel and a wind range of UCaas, CCaas, CPaas ecosystems)
Exceptional ROI

It's Like a Firewall for your Voice Traffic
STIR/SHAKEN
Analyzes STIR/SHAKEN attestation scores in call data for evidence of suspected call spoofing.
Proprietary Dynamic DB
Integrates data from worldwide resources to identify known spam, scam, spoofing and robocalls.
Threat Radar
Applies a set of analytic processes to detect atypical call patterns consistent with nefarious activity.
Custom Rules
Creates organization-specific custom rules directing filtering actions for matching calls.
Voice CAPTCHA
Extra layer of vetting that challenges callers to enter random digits before call is complete.

Get Insight
Is Your Organization a Victim?
Most organizations have limited understanding of the issues related to Unwanted Voice Traffic, and have no idea how their own infrastructure is impacted.
Understand the Impact
So, we have a Free Assessment that will show you the scale and significance of
the problem in your environment.
( a 21-page customized report )
mutare.com/voice-traffic-assessment/

UNDERSTAND THE PROBLEM
The Thesis: Protecting the Voice Channel mutare.com/protecting-the-voice-channel-thesis/

LEARN ABOUT THE SOLUTION
Mutare Voice Traffic Filter mutare.com/voice-traffic-filter/

REDUCE
CYBERSECURITY RISK
Reduce Contact Frequency Reduce Threat Event Frequency Reduce Primary Loss

IMPROVE
NETWORK RELIABILITY
Eliminate Bad Traffic Reduce TDoS Equivalent Downtime Optimize Network Tuning

PROTECT
PEOPLE & PERFORMANCE
Stop First Contact Remove Distracting Calls Lift Workforce Productivity

CUSTOMIZED WITH YOUR DATA The Voice Traffic Assessment provides you with visibility into the traffic traversing your enterprise voice network. Each Assessment is created and customized based upon your organization's data.
VISIBILITY INTO YOUR VOICE TRAFFIC Your custom report will uncover and expose the types of traffic traversing your voice network. You will have clear numbers and metrics to understand the scope, scale and impact of unwanted traffic in your environment.

Solutions
Enterprise Voicemail with Context Voice Traffic Filter Secure Enterprise Messaging App Customer Outreach Family Update Enterprise Text Mass Notification

I have seen a lot of implementations in the past and this one was handled exceedingly well and professionally. It was clear the Mutare engineers know their stuff."
Michael Repella, Telecommunications Engineer, Philips Lifeline
Mutare makes sure we know we are important to them. I can't begin to explain the difference that has made for me while making Mutare Voice a reality in our company."
Laurie Douglas, Systems Administrator, National Business Institute
The bottom line is this is a very good product supported by a great team."
Jack Pennypacker, IT Network Administrator, Baxter Manufacturing

About
Three Decades of Expertise For three decades, we've been empowering organizations to re-imagine a better way to connect with each other. Today, through our transformative digital voice and text messaging solutions, we make communications with colleagues, customers and prospects simple, secure and effective. And that means more time and less stress for your employees, a more positive experience for your customers, and improved bottom line results for your organization.
Get to know Mutare Our forward-looking leadership team is made up of dedicated, focused and experienced people who care about transforming business communications and improving the lives of others. Working together with our employees, their knowledge and experience come together to make a difference for all our stakeholders ­ customers, partners, businesses and communities. We are change makers.

Headquarters Mutare, Inc. 2325 Hicks Road Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008
Support 855.782.3890 help@mutare.com
Sales 847.496.9000 sales@mutare.com
mutare.com

We play nice with others
Our collaboration solutions improve communication and work seamlessly with your existing infrastructure, including:

