>

Reimagining
how peoplseeccuroelnynect.
mutare.com

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Empower Your Enterprise Voicemail

Short Description

Key Features

When you empower your enterprise voicemail, you are making a choice that communication matters, that responsiveness is a priority, that it is important to pay attention to the details in your quest to achieve transformative experiences.

A Simple, Mobile Experience
Natural Language Transcription
1
Context via CRM & Outlook Integrations
Clarity Thru Unified Messaging
Accessible Voice Recordings
We Play Nice with Others
2
Administration in a Snap

https://www.mutare.com/voice/

Mutare Voice is an enterprise-class solution that reimagines business voicemail. Traditional voicemail captures call recordings and stores them in a silo, requiring users to dial in to access their messages.
Mutare Voice unleashes voicemail to enable improved communication, faster response times and more informed decisions by empowering voicemail to become an active component of your intelligent collaboration strategy. Our industry-leading unified messaging solution allows users to receive voicemail messages in real time by mobile phone, through text and through email. Once received, messages include: a link to stream the call recording, a readable transcription of the message, detailed contact information pulled from CRM / MS Outlook, relevant contact insights and message sentiment. Ultimately, Mutare Voice elevates voicemail to be truly actionable.

3

1

Context via CRM & Outlook Integration

2

Natural Language Transcription

3 Easy to use Controls

Simplify Your Enterprise Notifications

Short Description
When you need to get the word out, you need the right tool. Mutare has a family of powerful, simple to use solutions that enable enterprise clients to communicate quickly to a wide range of target audiences, while leveraging the most effective channels for the situation.
https://www.mutare.com/text/

Key Features Secure Enterprise Messaging App (Alert) Customer Outreach (Reach) Mass Notification (Cast) Enterprise Text (Engage) Family Update (Status)

Select the right tool for your communication challenge as our broad range of solutions enable you to connect and communicate through any channel, to any audience and with standard or secure messaging. Additionally, our solutions empower communications in any form: 1- way, 1-way with receiver acknowledgment, or 2-way closed loop. Your search for a toolbox that contains all you need for enterprise messaging and notifications is now over. Get to know Mutare Text.

Get the word out to any audience!

One

Family

Team

Customers

Employees

Multiple Groups

© 2022 Mutare, Inc.® All Rights Reserved.

Mass Communication

mutare.com

Mutare Voice Traffic Filter
Eliminate Unwanted Voice Traffic
Remove the traffic that causes fraud, security incidents and data breaches.
The Mutare Voice Traffic Filter (VTF) is enterprise-class software built to provide multiple layers of protection against unwanted traffic. VTF creates a barrier at the network edge, ensuring that malicious and nefarious traffic does not gain access to your network. Our open architecture is designed to work seamlessly with just about every unified communications platform, including Cisco, Avaya, Mitel, Nortel and more.
https://www.mutare.com/voice-traffic-filter/
Get the Power to Cleanse Your Voice Network
Our powerful dashboard provides instant clarity and insights into your voice network traffic. With simple clicks and toggles you can easily change time-frames and discover how Unwanted Traffic is impacting your Network Performance and Security. This data-rich overview will enable you to identify patterns, trends and changes in your network traffic to optimize flow and performance. 1

Specify your time period by customizing your view by day, week, month, or year.
Filter the display to show unwanted calls identified by mode Active, Passive, or both Active and Passive filtering.
This Visual Timeline displays results in an easy snapshot view by day, week and month. Hover over any portion of the graph to reveal details.
Summary numbers and percentages of Wanted and Unwanted traffic for the specified time period.

Dig into our Multi-Layer Protection! See each of the 5 Layers of Protection and review the number of calls eliminated at each layer.
Get further information about Voice CAPTCHA, see actual Pass/Failure results!
See the phone numbers of the Top Unwanted calls along with the number of calls from each of these phone numbers.

A Firewall for your Voice Traffic 5 Layers of Protection
The multi-layered voice traffic firewall, aka Mutare Voice Traffic Filter, will eliminate nefarious and nuisance calls at the network edge. Protect your people, customers and your entire organization from cyber criminals exploiting your phone system.

1 STIR/ SHAKEN
2 Proprietary Dynamic DB

Shut
the
door.

3 Spoof Radar

Diminish the risk of ransomware, TDoS, theft and fraud by protecting your voice network.

4 Voice CAPTCHA
5 Custom Rules

Try it.
Uncover & Discover the Threats in your
Voice Network
Your customized 21-page report provides in depth analysis from four
distinct perspectives: Core Visibility
Cybersecurity Risk Network Reliability People & Performance
Get Clarity
mutare.com/voice-traffic-assessment/
How are nuisance and nefarious calls impacting your organization?

Solutions
Enterprise Voicemail with Context Voice Traffic Filter Secure Enterprise Messaging App Customer Outreach Family Update Enterprise Text Mass Notification

I have seen a lot of implementations in the past and this one was handled exceedingly well and professionally. It was clear the Mutare engineers know their stuff."
Michael Repella, Telecommunications Engineer, Philips Lifeline
Mutare makes sure we know we are important to them. I can't begin to explain the difference that has made for me while making Mutare Voice a reality in our company."
Laurie Douglas, Systems Administrator, National Business Institute
The bottom line is this is a very good product supported by a great team."
Jack Pennypacker, IT Network Administrator, Baxter Manufacturing

About
Three Decades of Expertise For three decades, we've been empowering organizations to re-imagine a better way to connect with each other. Today, through our transformative digital voice and text messaging solutions, we make communications with colleagues, customers and prospects simple, secure and effective. And that means more time and less stress for your employees, a more positive experience for your customers, and improved bottom line results for your organization.
Get to know Mutare Our forward-looking leadership team is made up of dedicated, focused and experienced people who care about transforming business communications and improving the lives of others. Working together with our employees, their knowledge and experience come together to make a difference for all our stakeholders ­ customers, partners, businesses and communities. We are changemakers.

Headquarters Mutare, Inc. 2325 Hicks Road Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008
Support 855.782.3890 help@mutare.com
Sales 847.496.9000 sales@mutare.com
https://www.mutare.com/

We play nice with others
Our collaboration solutions improve communication and work seamlessly with your existing infrastructure, including:

