There is an open doorway
in your cyber defense strategy.
Unwanted Traffic is impacting your organization:
1. Increasing your Cybersecurity Risk 2. Decreasing your Network Reliability 3. Putting your People at Risk 4. Decreasing your overall Workforce Productivity Now, you can understand the size and scale of your problem...
© 2021 Mutare, Inc.® All Rights Reserved.

The Voice Channel
is your most critical
communication medium
to both Business Viability & Customer Experience.
Most enterprise-class organizations do not realize that the way their voice network is operating creates an open doorway
to malicious and nefarious threats.
The Basics
CUSTOMIZED WITH YOUR DATA The Voice Traffic Assessment provides you with visibility into the traffic traversing your enterprise voice network. Each Assessment is created and customized based upon your organization's data.
VISIBILITY INTO YOUR VOICE TRAFFIC Your custom report will uncover and expose the types of traffic traversing your voice network. You will have clear numbers and metrics to understand the scope, scale and impact of unwanted traffic in your environment.
ARMED TO ACT Overall, our assessments are architected to discover the problem, measure the impact and establish a business case for resolution. The bottom line is that the enterprise phone system, or voice network, has become a focus for cyber criminals. The question is, have they targeted your organization? If so, your customized report will shine a light on the problem and provide you with a path to reduce cybersecurity risk, improve network reliability, and boost team member performance. All these are the result of purifying your voice traffic.
FAIR MODEL (ENTERPRISE SECURITY FRAMEWORK) The FAIRTM (Factor Analysis of Information Risk) cyber risk framework has emerged as the premier Value at Risk (VaR) framework for cybersecurity and operational risk. The FAIR Institute is a non-profit professional organization dedicated to advancing the discipline of measuring and managing information risk. It provides information risk, cybersecurity and business executives with the standards and best practices to help organizations measure, manage and report on information risk from the business perspective. The FAIR Institute and its community focus on innovation, education and sharing of best practices to advance the FAIR cyber risk framework and the information risk management profession.
https://www.fairinstitute.org/
© 2021 Mutare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

VOICE TRAFFIC ASSESSMENT

Qualitative & Quantitative
This assessment brings together qualitative insights and information, and quantitative data and metrics which have been sourced from reputable industry institutions, Mutare's proprietary research, Mutare's proprietary dynamic database of unwanted voice traffic, and from you, our client. We have done our best to assemble and consolidate meaningful, relevant information to help you and your organization on two fronts:

First, to provide visibility & insight into your
voice infrastructure.
Specifically, through this assessment you will get the facts about the traffic traversing your voice network. We begin with the highest level of segmentation of Wanted Calls (good traffic) and Unwanted Calls (bad traffic).

1

Second, to provide clarity & perspective on the
impact of Unwanted Calls.
As we delve into understanding voice traffic, we believe in a pragmatic, business-centric approach. Our intent is to present you with the facts and then help you view those facts from multiple perspectives, or lenses.

2

The calls, or traffic, going in and out of your voice network are almost completely unchecked!

Your Custom Report will include...

Regardless of which assessment you chose, we will prepare and present a professional, multi-page analysis that will include these custom findings, expert insights, industry benchmarks and comparisons and much more.

Annualized Total Calls Annualized Wanted Calls Annualized Unwanted Calls Annualized Nefarious Calls Annualized Nuisance Calls Contact Frequency (FAIR)

Threat Event Frequency (FAIR) Initial Action Prevention EST Lost Productivity / Year EST TDoS Equivalent Network Downtime Return on Investment (ROI) Industry Metrics and Comparisons

View the Problem from Multiple Perspectives

Core Visibility
Just the facts. As we begin this journey, it is critical to see your data at the highest level. We simply take your data and break it down into a set of Core Metrics: annualized Total Calls, Wanted Calls and Unwanted Calls. And then we go one level further, breaking down Unwanted Calls into: Nefarious Calls and Nuisance Calls.

Cybersecurity Risk
Leveraging your Core Metrics, we invoke the perspective of a Security Analyst and view the risks and potential impacts of Unwanted Calls. In this section, we apply attributes of the FAIR Model and bring in security-related industry metrics and projections.

Network Reliability
Here we consider the impact of Bad Traffic on the performance and reliability of your voice network. While some believe bandwidth is cheap, optimal network tuning is crucial to the customer journey, ensuring world-class CSAT achievement and rapid response to business communications.

People & Performance
Perhaps this is our most important section and has a dual purpose. As humans are the weakest link in cyber defense, we consider how to eliminate Nefarious Contacts or, Calls. Additionally, we present an enlightening calculation that shows the toll Unwanted Calls is exacting on your workforce

© 2021 Mutare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Visibility & Insight into your voice traffic to understand how unwanted calls are impacting your organization.
Two Assessments to choose from:
ALTERNATIVE 1
Voice Traffic Analysis
Submit at least 30 days of your CDR data and we will provide you with an in-depth assessment of your call traffic.
Includes: Layer 2 (Proprietary Dynamic DB) FREE
ALTERNATIVE 2
Proof of Concept
Try the Voice Traffic Filter for 30 days and experience the full impact for yourself.
Includes: All 5 Layers of Protection $ 6,500

OUR SOLUTION
Mutare Voice Traffic Filter
Did you know that your enterprise phone system, or voice network, has become a focus for cyber criminals?
Robocalls - Spoof Calls - Spam Calls - Direct Nefarious Calls - Vishing - Smishing
With Mutare Voice Traffic Filter you can remove, delete and vaporize unwanted calls so they don't wreak havoc on your voice network.
Headquarters Mutare, Inc. 2325 Hicks Road Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008
Support 855.782.3890 help@mutare.com
Sales 847.496.9000 sales@mutare.com
https://www.mutare.com/

