Nine steps to proactively manage data privacy and protection
Build trust with your employees, customers, and third parties START

74 59
41
2019 2020 2021
74 zettabytes of digital data will be created in 2021. That's up from 59 zettabytes in 2020 and 41 zettabytes in 2019
Statistica, June 2021
What is personal information?
As you might expect, common examples of personal information include driver's license number, telephone number, bank account number, credit/debit card number, full name, and address. However, the definition of personal information is significantly broader than these common examples and varies based on a number of factors. For example, under CCPA, personal information is "information that identifies, relates to, describes, is capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked, directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer or household." The European Union's GDPR Article 4, refers to personal data as "any information which are related to an identified or identifiable natural person." While the US Office of Privacy and Open Government uses the term personally identifiable information as: "Information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as their name, social security number, biometric records, etc. alone, or when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, etc."

Managing data privacy and protection is an evolving, global challenge
Every day, organizations across the globe, routinely control, process, or store the personal data of employees, customers, and third parties.
At the same time, protecting and managing data privacy is an evolving, global challenge with ever-changing regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), as well as new privacy acts in in the U.S. and abroad. These laws require companies to define and operationalize privacy policies, identify the location and usage of all personal data, and comply with specific regulatory requirements such as breach management, privacy impact analyses, and data subject rights.
The critical questions:
Are you doing enough to protect personal information? Are you ensuring that data is used correctly? The repercussions from failing to follow privacy regulations are too severe not to be able to answer these questions with a resounding yes.

The high cost of not protecting data
98.2 M
More than 98.2 million individuals were impacted by the 10 biggest data breaches in the first half of 2021
2021 First Half Data Breach Analysis, Identity Theft Resource Center, July 2021

$4.24 M
The average data breach costs in 2021 is $4.24 million, a 10% rise from 2020 findings.
Cost of a Data Breach Report, 2021, Ponemon Institute, 2021

$312,493 $115,123

2019

2020

171%
In 2020, the average ransomware payment increased 171% from $115,123 in 2019 to $312,493 in 2020.
2021 Unit 42 Ransomware Threat Report, Palo Alto Networks, March 2021
2

The negative impact of data misuse
While data breaches get a lot of attention, data misuse is also a huge concern. When a person provides permission to collect personal information, data misuse occurs when that data is not handled correctly and proper protections aren't in place, resulting in the information being used in ways it wasn't supposed to in violation of data privacy regulations.
The negative repercussions from data misuse can include:
Harm to customer well-being Financial penalties Legal actions Reputational damage to the business.1
1 Okta, What is data misuse?, 2020 (https://www.okta.com/blog/2020/06/data-misuse/)
3

Nine practical steps to manage data privacy and protection
Here are nine steps you can begin to take today to make sure your organization is effectively managing data privacy and protection, while building trust with your employees, customers, and third parties.
1 Create a culture of privacy with stakeholders 2 Focus on data classification 3 Manage policies and notifications 4 Develop privacy controls across multiple regulations 5 Enable privacy by design with control points and operational activities 6 Respond to privacy requests from data subjects 7 Prepare for privacy incidents 8 Manage third-party risk 9 Leverage automation
4

Step 1:
Create a culture of privacy with stakeholders
In the past, many companies did not take a holistic view of privacy as something touching every part of the business. They may have had privacy teams made up of one or two people who created privacy policies and managed privacy compliance using manual, paper-based systems. At the same time, most employees did not consider privacy, security, and risk to be issues they needed to think about in their daily work lives. Instead, they perceived these issues as simply roadblocks to getting "real work" done.
Getting executive buy-in
Today, everything has changed with digital data protection and privacy regulations that vary from state to state in the U.S. and from country to country. Forward-thinking organizations are working to shift mindsets regarding privacy by getting buy-in from executive leaders. Obviously C-Suite leaders like the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Security Officer may be laser-focused on privacy, but leaders across the organization, from marketing to finance, need to understand the potential impact to finances and reputation if privacy and data use are not managed correctly. They must set expectations and drive home the message that privacy management and data protection are top priorities--not nice to haves.
5

Step 2:
Focus on data classification
The risk of data graveyards
When you consider that in 2021, 1.7 MB of data is being generated every second2, it's easy to understand why your organization may not have a good handle on the type of data it collects, if the information has been collected in a compliant way, and whether it's properly secured, erased, or destroyed. Too many enterprises fall into the trap of collecting and then storing massive quantities of data in giant repositories on servers. These data graveyards carry a hefty price--to the tune of millions of dollars each year. But, there is also the real risk of these untapped data stores getting targeted and exploited by cybercriminals. Fortunately, there are new technologies that automate these techniques, along with the discovery of data types, content, and categories. Then, these data insights can be automatically pulled into your privacy and risk management solution to provide a comprehensive view of data and your data assets. This helps ensure data privacy risk is accurately identified and policies including data retention and records management are enforced.
Automate data classification
In order to classify data accurately (and reduce false positives), you need a multi-layered, in-depth approach that includes:  Regular expression (RegEx) and pattern matching to classify data that follows
a known pattern  Natural language processing and deep learning to identify data that doesn't follow a
known pattern  Graph technology to map related data, inferred data, and discover dark data  Fuzzy classification to identify similarities within the data
 FinancesOnline, 53 Important Statistics About How Much Data Is Created Every Day, 2021 (https://financesonline.com/how-much-data-is-created-every-day/)
6

Step 3:
Manage policies and notifications
Once-a-year privacy training isn't enough
Traditionally, organizations have struggled to engage stakeholders in discussions about privacy and data protection policies and manage notifications. With the GDPR and state privacy laws in the U.S. in effect, the impact of not managing personal information correctly is too significant to leave privacy and data protection to an annual training and the signing of a privacy and data protection pledge, which used to be standard practices at many companies.

Educate stakeholders about privacy and data protection
Now, your privacy leaders should weave privacy and data protection into the mainstream business by:
 Holding monthly team meetings with stakeholders that address different aspects of privacy and data protection, including understanding consumer rights and the risks associated with managing consumer data, emerging privacy regulations, and new automated privacy management solutions
 Designating champions in business units and departments who understand privacy and data protection and can answer questions and educate others about why privacy management and data protection are critical
 Distributing privacy and data protection information to the organization on a regular basis--rather than in one large chunk once a year
 Improving the process of ingesting regulations with a common repository and single taxonomy
 Using privacy content providers and services to stay current with evolving regulations
7

Step 4:
Develop privacy controls across multiple regulations
Although GDPR and CCPA each impact far-reaching jurisdictions, and largely set regulatory standards globally, privacy regulations are far from consistent worldwide. If your company is like many operating in multiple jurisdictions, this situation can present real privacy management and data protection implications. It's almost impossible to be effective at privacy management and data protection when you're always playing catch up just to meet controls stipulated by a specific law. For example, there are slight differences between the GDPR and the CCPA, and new laws continue to go into effect across the globe.
Implement privacy management and data protection best practices
Instead of looking at how to meet specific regulations or privacy controls in a particular timeframe, your goal should be to implement consistent, best practices that can be the "floor" or foundation for privacy management and data protection to meet the different, existing regulatory requirements, while also staying abreast of potential new rules. For example, firms that implemented requirements for the GDPR as their "floor," were in relatively good shape to pivot to meet privacy management requirements when Brazil and other countries passed their privacy regulations often modeled after the GDPR. With a modern privacy management and data protection solution in play, best practices offer the flexibility to easily update and incorporate new requirements while ensuring significant compliance across the spectrum. They also feature a common controls framework so you can test once and comply with many regulations.
8

Privacy by design: The concept of embedding privacy into any new product, system, or process at the point it is being conceptualized and developed.
EY, How to successfully embed a culture of privacy by design, 2020

Step 5:
Enable privacy by design with control points and operational activities
It's not effective for organizations to always be in reactive mode when it comes to the rapidly changing regulatory landscape or threat landscape. Instead, you can be more proactive by incorporating privacy by design into your culture and work practices from the beginning when designing and implementing new technology, systems, or solutions. Privacy by design involves embedding essential privacy controls and incorporating privacy requirements and best practices to manage privacy risks, security risks, and different vulnerabilities, along with establishing data retention policies.
Privacy by design in action
For example, when a new application, project, or vendor is under consideration, there is a mandated screening assessment as part of the formal approval process to determine if the new application, project, or vendor will handle personal data. You can obtain consistent accurate results by using a workflow to automate the process of sending out a privacy impact assessment (PIA) and creating a process so that controls are assigned to processing activities based on the response to the PIA or subsequent attestations. When privacy by design is a high priority from the start, people are more likely to invest in privacy and understand the risks associated with not abiding by privacy and data protection regulations and laws.
9

Step 6: Respond to privacy requests from data subjects
Since privacy regulations vary, determining the best approach to comply with privacy requests from data subjects can be a huge stumbling block. It all comes down to data. Organizations that are using manual privacy management processes and/or do not know what data they have or where it is located, struggle to fulfill privacy requests in the time periods directed by privacy regulations. In contrast, meeting privacy requests is a completely different scenario for companies that have automated privacy management and:  Have portals that are easy for data subjects to access and use  Use processes to streamline data subject identity verification  Easily collect data and put it into reports  Deliver reports to data subjects, routinely ahead of regulatory requirements
10

Step 7:
Manage privacy incidents
Incidents happen. What matters is how you handle them. Handle them badly, and the negative repercussions to your organization's reputation may be unsurmountable. Handle them well, and you'll be positively recognized in the industry for your efforts.
The benefits of automating privacy incident management
In the past when an incident occurred, privacy wasn't always top of mind, but now in many companies' privacy experts are brought in immediately. Privacy risks are sorted out during the initial triage because there is a better understanding of what personal information is, and what bad actors can glean from the data. Companies using automated privacy management solutions can have their privacy teams quickly remediate incidents by doing root cause analysis to determine why an incident happened, identify notification requirements, get the right messaging out, and notify the correct individuals. Upon even suspicion of a breach, it is paramount to start identifying what personal data may reside in the identified data store, and the regulatory requirements potentially in play. The short notification windows to the regulators once you have determined it is an actual breach do not provide the luxury of time. All regulations today, require that organizations must notify regulators and customers within a specific time period. With a proactive automated privacy management solution in place, you have already identified the personal information that resides in specific data stores and the regulatory requirements that control such data. Thus, it is seamless to then merely to hand over security incidents to a privacy team to take the next required steps to meet the requisite compliance obligations.

11

Step 8: Manage third-party risk
Vendors and third parties are important to most organizations, but these third parties have the potential to introduce data security and privacy risks because it's hard enough to manage data security within your own environment, let alone ensuring you can rely on your vendors for effective privacy management. The stakes are even higher now with privacy laws and regulators holding companies and vendors jointly responsible, for how third-party risk is managed. Companies and vendors alike can face huge fines in the event of a third-party breach, along with damage to reputation and negative publicity.
Power of regular assessments
It is important for organizations to set up processes to do regular assessments to review third-party contracts and supplement or amend them to include new data protection and privacy language. They need to assess whether thirdparty providers understand the new regulatory requirements, which identify their obligations in the event of a breach and notification provisions. To reduce risk, companies must implement processes to ensure that they provide only the minimal data necessary to third party vendors, while ensuring that upon termination of the contract, processes are in place for the third party to delete or return data in a timely fashion.
12

Step 9:
Leverage automation
The days of many manual processes are long since passed. To be competitive today, companies are looking to automate and leverage technology at every turn. Automating privacy management and data protection processes is on the radar for organizations looking to best leverage their data stores, while reducing their overall risk.
Smart privacy management and data protection solutions
While effective privacy management and data protection calls for a change in culture, adopting smart solutions to automate privacy management and data protection is also a key step. Such solutions can automate the overall workflow and processes to manage privacy and data protection. For example, data classification solutions with machine learning capabilities can automatically understand the type of data you have, to whom it relates and the business purpose. Getting there does not happen with the waiving of a wand or the mere installation of software. To be successful in your overall privacy management and data protection program, it will be critical to collaborate with knowledgeable professionals that can assist you in identifying your overall data risk, regulations that are potentially in play, and how the business will reap the greatest benefit. These professionals would then work with you to develop the required processes and procedures on how best to deploy the privacy management system to meet your regulatory requirements, business expectations, and objectives, while within your risk appetite. And when it comes to risk assessments, organizations can more quickly assess their current risk positions and identify areas for improvement by working with experts and taking advantage of automated risk assessment solutions with questions mapped to controls for compliance testing purposes.
13

Privacy regulations will continue to change as the volumes of data grow. Now is the time to identify a plan or further your initiative to move forward with your privacy management and data protection program. These nine steps, the use of today's technologies, complemented by knowledgeable professionals to support your efforts, will aid you in the successful development and implementation of a viable program.
Find out more about how ServiceNow can help you manage privacy, risk, and compliance across the enterprise at www.servicenow.com/privacy

Work should be safer.

 ServiceNow 2022 All rights reserved SN-EB-Nine-steps-to-proactively-manage-data-privacy-and-protection-011722

