DATA S H E E T

Active Roles On Demand
SaaS-delivery to take the risk out of managing and securing Active Directory and Azure AD

Benefits
· Full-strength IAM and AD Account Lifecycle Management with on-demand delivery
· Manage permissions and protect critical AD and Azure AD data
· Enable Zero Trust security · Regulate privileged access via
a least-privilege model · Simplify management of complex
environments with a single, intuitive tool · Overcome native-AD tools limitations · Automate users/group account
creation and deletion · Manage accounts for Exchange Online,
Lync, SharePoint Online, Office 365 and many more · Know who made what change and when · Extend the modular architecture and expand to identity management and governance
When a user's access is
changed, updates are made automatically
in AD, AAD, Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, OCS, Teams and Windows, as well as any AD-joined systems.
®

Cloud without Compromise
The challenges with managing and securing accounts in Active Directory (AD) and Azure AD are many and varied ­ including risk of breaches, inefficiencies in provisioning and compliance headaches. While AD and Azure AD are reliable, powerful tools used by 95 percent of Fortune 1000 companies, native AD tools are inefficient and ill-equipped to support a modern, hybrid environment. With native-AD tools alone, hybrid AD management and security is inefficient, disjointed, and error-prone. Thankfully help is here. Active Roles On Demand is the Saas solution to remedy these challenges, fill in the gaps of native AD tools, and significantly improve efficiency, automation, security and compliance of their environments. All of the functionality and capabilities of Active Roles on Demand is available in Saas-delivery ­ in the cloud without compromise.
Challenges
Rapid digital transformation and the frantic pace of business today results in organizations struggling to keep up with requests to create, change or remove access to the hybrid AD environment. Plus, they face security issues like terminated employees retaining access to valuable intellectual property, challenging business requirements and satisfying auditors' requests for reports. Then, add the need to tightly control Active Directory and Azure Active Directory administrative access as well as keeping up with the explosion of non-Windows and SaaS applications that must be also managed.

Directory management

Active Roles TM

Azure Active Directory

Account administration

Active Directory

Hybrid Active Directory simple and secure

Security Extensible

w w w. o n e i d e n t i t y. c o m

Features
Secure access
Active Roles On Demand provides comprehensive privileged account management for Active Directory and Azure AD, enabling you to control access through delegation using a leastprivilege model. Based on defined administrative policies and associated permissions, it generates and strictly enforces access rules, eliminating the errors and inconsistencies common with native approaches to hybrid AD management.
Along with modern authentication using OAUTH, Active Roles On Demand has robust and personalized approval procedures that establish an IT process and oversight consistent with business requirements, with responsibility chains that complement the automated management of directory data.
Hybrid AD-ready
Active Roles on Demand is optimized to serve the needs of both on-prem AD and Azure AD in hybrid or Azure-only environments. It offers a single console, unified workflows and a consistent administrative experience across your entire hybrid environ-ment. With support for multi-tenant, Active Roles On Demand eliminates the cumbersome, error-prone, and limited nature of using separate tools and manual processes.
Automate account administration
Active Roles On Demand automates a wide variety of tasks, including:
· Changes made any AD-joined systems, including UNIX/Linux and Mac OSx
· Creating user and group accounts in AD and AAD
· Extending AD/AAD-based account administrative actions to non-Windows systems and SaaS applications
· Creating mailboxes in Exchange and Exchange Online
· Populating groups across AD and AAD
· Assigning resource in Windows

ISO 27001 Certified
One Identity, a Quest Company and a leading global identity security company, and its cloud infrastructure and processes have achieved ISO/IEC 27001 certification; the international standard outlining best practices for information security management systems.
Day-to-day directory management
With Active Roles On Demand, you can easily manage all of the following resources in on-prem and Azure AD environments:
· Exchange recipients, including mailbox/OCS assignment, creation, movement, deletion, permissions and distribution list management
· Groups
· Computers, including shares, printers, local users and groups
· Active Directory and Azure Active Directory
Active Roles On Demand also supports the most popular and relevant customization options, such as PowerShell to deliver maximum flexibility and the ability to use Active Roles On Demand in the manner that is most advantageous to your organization.
Extend the administrative scope
Active Roles On Demand supports the SCIM standard, which allows any SCIM-enabled SaaS application (via One Identity Starling Connect) to be embraced in the AD-based account and group administration capabilities of Active Roles On Demand.
Manage groups and users in a hosted environment
Synchronize AD domain clients with a host AD domain in hosted environments. Active Roles On Demand enables user and group account.

About One Identity
One Identity, a Quest Software business, helps organizations achieve an identity-centric security strategy. With a uniquely broad portfolio of identity and access management offerings including identity governance, privileged access management and account management, all augmented by a hybrid cloud delivery strategy, One Identity helps organizations reach their full potential, unimpeded by security, yet safeguarded against threats. One Identity has proven unequalled in its commitment to its customers' long-term success. More than 7,500 organizations worldwide depend on One Identity solutions to manage more than 125 million identities, enhancing their agility and efficiency while securing access to their systems and data ­ on-prem, cloud or hybrid. For more information, visit www.oneidentity.com
© 2021 One Identity LLC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. One Identity, and the One Identity logo are trademarks and registered trademarks of One Identity LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. For a complete list of One Identity trademarks, please visit our website at www.oneidentity.com/legal. All other trademarks, servicemarks, registered trademarks, and registered servicemarks are the property of their respective owners. Datasheet_ActiveRolesSaaS_US_PG_65340
w w w. o n e i d e n t i t y. c o m
®

