DATA S H E E T

Identity Manager On Demand
SaaS-delivery to take the risk out of enterprise identity and access management

Benefits
· Full-strength IGA with on-demand delivery
· Govern access to on-premises, cloud and hybrid resources from request through fulfillment for users and data
· Reduce risk by ensuring users have only the access they need
· Satisfy audit and compliance initiatives with attestation/ recertification policies
· Put access decisions where it belongs -- in the hands of the business
· Build on existing investments and infrastructure and grow from there

Cloud without Compromise
Traditional identity and access management (IAM) frameworks are expensive to build and time-consuming to implement and maintain. And many are old-school design that are not optimized for the cloud. For IT departments, these legacy IAM frameworks are a massive burden to work with and maintain ­ especially if IT is responsible for managing all user identity lifecycle management. Often, to meet the varied IAM needs of different business units, IT uses a siloed set of tools and security policies, and manual processes. This combination of archaic practices leaves each business unit ­ and the organization as a whole ­ at risk and vulnerable to attacks. Plus, it is inefficient and makes it difficult to meet SLAs. Then, mix in a hybrid environment with resources on-prem and in the cloud and now you've added to the burden. Traditional SaaS-based IGA solutions have limited capabilities and are unable to satisfy your IGA needs.
But now finally you can accelerate productivity and give users access to just the data and applications they need to do their jobs ­ and nothing more ­ in a SaaS model with no compromises for functionality or scope.
With Identity Manager On Demand, you can unify security policies and satisfy governance needs. And you can do this while improving business agility with a modular and scalable on-demand IAM solution.

MITIGATE RISK. CONTROL ACCESS. GOVERN IDENTITIES. SECURE DATA.
Now, SaaS-delivered identity and access management (IAM) can be driven by business needs thanks to One Identity Manager On Demand.
Figure 1. Governance Heatmap enables quick drilldown on policy violations
w w w. o n e i d e n t i t y. c o m
®

Features
Cloud without Compromise ­ Enjoy all the benefits
of full-strength IGA in a on-demand delivery model without sacrificing scope, functionality or security.
SAP Certified ­ Provide certified deep-SAP-integration
with fine-grained capabilities to enhance existing SAP security models -- and even improve on them.
Risk reducer ­ Make better security decisions by
combining security information and policies from multiple sources to reduce exposure and eliminate information silos
Cloud ­ Easily embrace on-prem and cloud systems in your
on-demand identity governance solution
Governance 360 ­ Provide auditors with detailed, real-
time governance reports that includes information about what resources are in your environment, who has access to them, when and why that access was granted and terminated.
Automated Provisioning ­ Eliminate manual mistakes
by automating provisioning to any system, platform or application on premises or in the cloud. Extend provisioning to enterprise applications such as Exchange Online, SharePoint and Oracle E-Business Suite.
Secure Access ­ Enhance security by providing
employees, contractors, partners, customers, students, alumni, constituents and patients with only the access they absolutely need - nothing more and nothing less.
Compliance Now ­ External regulations? No problem.
Internal policies? No problem. Get the complete visibility you need while meeting the demands of all the other groups.

Self-Service Access Portal ­ Save time by enabling
the business to help themselves. Reduces support-team effort with a customizable `shopping cart' portal. Users can request access to security assets such as physical assets, groups and distribution lists and control access rights and permissions for their entire identity lifecycle with predefined approval processes and workflows.
Privileged Access Governance ­ Unified governance
where users can request, provision, and attest to privileged and general user access within the same console.
Attestation Review Dashboard ­ Schedule on-
demand or routine attestation and display the status of group or distribution list in a clear, concise dashboard view; and you can produce detailed reports for discovery, as well as to satisfy compliance.
Password Reset ­ Reset user-account passwords and
set user-policy preferences that mirror your organization's password rules and requirements. You can institute multiple and granular password policies depending user roles.
Scale Up and Out ­ Build on your existing investments
and infrastructure you already have and grow from there.

About One Identity
One Identity by Quest lets organizations implement an identitycentric security strategy, whether on-prem, in the cloud or in a hybrid environment. With our uniquely broad and integrated portfolio of identity management offerings including account management, identity governance and administration and privileged access management, organizations are empowered to reach their full potential where security is achieved by placing identities at the core of the program, enabling proper access across all user types, systems and data. Learn more at OneIdentity.com
© 2021 One Identity LLC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. One Identity, and the One Identity logo are trademarks and registered trademarks of One Identity LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. For a complete list of One Identity trademarks, please visit our website at www.oneidentity.com/legal. All other trademarks, servicemarks, registered trademarks, and registered servicemarks are the property of their respective owners. Datasheet-IDM-OnDemand-RS-64549
w w w. o n e i d e n t i t y. c o m
®

