LASTPASS BUSINESS FACT SHEET
Password Management and Single Sign-On Are Always Stronger Together

Breach opportunities continue to widen as digital lives and flexible work expand. The challenge to secure every login grows and is only exacerbated by the rapid adoption of cloud applications. In fact, 70% of individuals spent more time online and created 50% more accounts than last year*.
Often, organizations choose to secure logins with Single Sign On (SSO) only ­ but this leaves a gap for those applications that don't integrate with SSO, think of corporate credit card accounts, Facebook, Twitter, and more ­ all sites and credentials that are commonly used in business. While these gaps in security and the need to protect every entry point is not a new challenge, it is quickly increasing in volume.
Every single login is a potential entryway for a hacker ­ and needs to be secured accordingly. A password management solution enables you to centrally manage all passwords, so you can:
· Address the gap left by the apps and web services that can't support SSO
· Help IT enforce security controls for employee-introduced apps and web services
· Facilitate secure password sharing throughout the organization
· Solve for the co-management of work and personal credentials
Stronger together: Password management complements SSO by integrating with leading SSO providers to give businesses complete flexibility in managing every access point ­ those integrated with SSO, those that can't, and those unknown to IT. SSO and password management are more effective when they join forces. With SSO, you minimize risk by reducing the number of passwords in your business; with password management you secure those that still exist. Together, you secure it all.
*Last Pass Psychology of Passwords Report 2021
LastPass.com

Single sign-on and password management
Comprehensive security controls
Flexible integrations
Easy user management and reporting

Gain greater insight and take control By layering Password Management with SSO, IT has full control and visibility over what applications your employees access. This means no more shadow IT, and no more password-related risks due to lack of insight. With LastPass, IT maintains a holistic view, including every single app, every single password, and every single user. All of which can be accomplished with one tool, no need for IT to increase overhead or buy additional SAML setup tools.
Streamline secure collaboration across every application While SSO protects logins for some traditional business applications, employees experience friction when it comes to secondary applications or those not covered by SSO, like social media accounts, demo accounts, IT credentials, services, and more. These inefficiencies force employees to create workarounds or revert to poor password practices. Implementing a password manager ensures all employees are securely sharing and collaborating with internal colleagues or external partners.
Eliminate point solutions and increase security SSO is a point solution but adding password management enables you to control your SSO, deploy additional integrations with existing technology, enforce over 100+ customizable security policies, track adoption and usage, review your overall security health through security scores, and monitor employee vulnerabilities through alwayson Dark Web Monitoring.
For businesses that have already invested in Single Sign-On, pairing it with the password management features of LastPass offers IT teams flexibility in safeguarding every access point while eliminating friction for employees.
LastPass integrates with all industry leading SSO providers.

Get in Touch

Find out more about LastPass Business.

©2022 LastPass US L.P. All rights reserved. | 02.02.2022/LMI2315/PDF

