SecurityMetrics
PCI ONSITE ASSESSMENT

SecurityMetrics Qualified Security Assessors (QSAs) communicate with you throughout the entire audit process so you're never left wondering what to expect. Clients enjoy working with SecurityMetrics assessors so much that the majority return for compliance certification the following year.
KEEP YOUR PCI AUDIT ORGANIZED AND ON SCHEDULE
When you're on a tight deadline, it's easy to want to rush things, which causes a disorganized process. SecurityMetrics takes the time to understand your environment, and then helps you scope your compliance efforts to the levels appropriate for your organization. In addition to assessing your level of compliance, SecurityMetrics advises you on how to streamline and secure your processes, enabling you to achieve compliance in a way that saves you time and keeps you organized.
SecurityMetrics partners with you before, during, and after your assessment, working with you to quickly identify and resolve threats that could impact your business. By taking advantage of SecurityMetrics PCI Onsite Assessments you can:
· Minimize the impact of PCI requirements through scope reduction and proper network segmentation
· Enjoy peace of mind that your sensitive data is secure · Avoid the costs and headaches of non-compliance fines and penalties · Improve business efficiency and reduce operational costs by streamlining,
securing and simplifying your day-to-day payment card operations
ENJOY A CUSTOM-TAILORED AUDIT EXPERIENCE
The SecurityMetrics PCI Assessment team provides you the following services: 1. Custom Price Quote ­ Instead of paying a standard onsite assessment price, SecurityMetrics personalizes each quote to maximize your service and minimize your cost. 2. Pre-Onsite Consulting ­ Your QSA will conduct an initial assessment review and gap analysis, pre-assessment consulting on network design, security policy review, and onsite visit preparation.
POS.DS.ENG.12.18

WHETHER IT'S TO SECURE YOUR SENSITIVE DATA, COMPLY WITH PCI REQUIREMENTS, OR COMPLY WITH MERCHANT PROCESSOR
MANDATES, SECURITYMETRICS DOESN'T JUST ASSESS YOUR SITUATION; THEY HELP YOU ACHIEVE A STRONG AND LASTING SECURITY POSTURE.

3. Onsite Assessment ­ Your QSA will meet with your full team of business and technical professionals to gather accurate information to satisfy all PCI DSS requirements. He or she will also ensure efficient controls are put into place to reduce current and future PCI compliance overhead.
4. Post-Onsite Summary Report ­ Your QSA will provide quick, initial feedback on compliance status and remediation needs.
5. Remediation Work ­ SecurityMetrics will continue to work with you to remediate any items not in compliance.
6. PCI Report Preparation and Submission­ SecurityMetrics documents your compliance to PCI requirements, provides you with the Report on Compliance (ROC) for review, and then submits compliance status to card brands or acquiring bank.
FEEL CONFIDENT IN YOUR COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENT
When you partner with SecurityMetrics for your PCI Onsite Assessment, you'll also benefit from the following:
· Full-Service Vendor ­ With expertise in PCI assessments, forensic incident response, vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, card data discovery, security appliances, PA-DSS application security assessments, training, and consulting; SecurityMetrics is one of only a few companies that hold credentials for all aspects of PCI.
· Open and Ongoing Relationship ­ Whenever compliance questions or worries arise, SecurityMetrics' PCI compliance professionals will work with you to address your concerns.
· Accurate and Understandable Results ­ SecurityMetrics gives you the facts on every aspect of your PCI assessment through an easy-to-understand online reporting console.
· Single Point of Contact ­ To keep communication lines open and eliminate confusion, SecurityMetrics assigns a single point of contact for each assessment.
· Fair, No-Surprise Pricing ­ SecurityMetrics strives to offer simple and straightforward pricing with a single bid that won't change.
· No Long-Term Contracts ­ SecurityMetrics never locks you down into a long-term agreement.
· Unlimited Rescans ­ Since achieving PCI compliance is an iterative process, SecurityMetrics includes unlimited scanning during the assessment and remediation process.

ABOUT SECURITYMETRICS
We help customers close data security and compliance gaps to avoid data breaches. We provide managed data security services and are certified to help customers achieve the highest data security
and compliance standards.
We're a PCI certified Approved Scanning Vendor (ASV), Qualified Security Assessor (QSA), Certified
Forensic Investigator (PFI), and Managed Security provider with 18 years of data security experience.
We help local shops as well as some of the world's largest brands
achieve data security through managed services and compliance
mandates (PCI, HIPAA, GDPR).

© SecurityMetrics | 1275 W 1600 N | Orem, UT 84057 | www.securitymetrics.com

