Penetration Testing Timeline
SCHEDULING
2-4 Months Before Penetration Test
TESTING PREPARATION
5 Weeks Before Penetration Test
AUTOMATED/MANUAL TESTING
During Penetration Test
REPORTING
0-6 Weeks After Penetration Test
REMEDIATION
0-3 Months After Penetration Test
RETESTING
0-3 Months After Penetration Test
AFTER RETESTING
Ongoing

SCHEDULING (2-4 Months Before Penetration Test)
You've been given a timeline for your assessment, it is important to consider all factors before scheduling a test.
Choose a pentester by verifying that:
They follow industry best practice standards They communicate their testing methodologies
Determine your pentest date by answering these questions:
Is the pentest starting early enough to leave time for remediation later? Is this during a busy time of the year?
Will office operations be interrupted? How much notice should we give everyone?
Confirm your timeline with the pentester
Testing Preparation (5 Weeks Before Penetration Test)
You have your technical questionnaire, now you need to address all aspects of testing preparation.
Fill out your questionnaire Collect and deliver documentation
Provide as much information as you can by answering: What is your motivation? What do you really want to find out? What are your compliance requirements?
Schedule penetration test Coordinate with personnel and prepare office
Inform your entire staff Assign team members to assist with pentest

Coordinate with personnel and prepare office
Verify this is done in your IPS (Intrusion Prevention System) or IDS (Intrusion Detection System)
Automated/Manual Testing (During Penetration Test)
During this step, automated scans and manual testing is performed to further assess the security of the target while your team assists to make the process smooth and straightforward.
Ensure that team members are available to assist with questions or issues during testing
Be available and responsive Don't change the environment Raise concerns if production is impacted
Plan enough in advance, holidays can be a popular time to book a pentest Don't change your environment in the middle of the pentest
Pick a time of day for automated scans
Determine how busy your environment is during this time
Reporting (0-6 Weeks After Penetration Test)
Now that your penetration test is complete and you've received your report, you should review it to see if the penetration tester was able to identify the root causes of issues.
Evaluate your report, taking note of:
Date of your report Mark 90 days later on a calendar as the end of retesting window
The executive summary Statement of the scope Methodologies

Limitations Narrative of steps they went through when they found a problem
What tools they used How vulnerabilities were identified
Begin planning for remediation
Analyze findings Sometimes they can only see the symptoms of the issue Look to see if the tester was able to identify root causes
Start addressing root causes
Remediation (0-3 Months After Penetration Test)
It's time to review your report and consider the logistics of your remediation and retesting plans.
Remediate items Schedule retesting Your development team will want to:
Review changes Install patches Reconfigure software Update code for all applications
Eliminate old OS (Operating System) Close any non-critical network ports Restrict Access
Double-check which personnel have access to what Evaluate how much access every employee actually requires Confirm all staff only have essential access

Retesting (0-3 Months After Penetration Test)
During remediation, you can send your test back over to the penetration testing firm for retesting, and receive a revised report.
Retest (within 90 days of initial report date)
Certify that fixes are working
Repeat remediation processes until all fixes are implemented correctly
After Retesting (Ongoing)
Now that remediation and retesting is over, you should make process and policy changes to avoid future vulnerabilities.
Develop an improvement plan by considering these questions:
How can we make our environment a little more secure every time? Do we need additional training for our developers and network engineers?
Do they have the resources they need to be successful?
Assess your experience for next year's pentest:
Did you have enough time to get everything done? Re-evaluate your timeline
Plan a date for next year's pentest Ensure continued maintenance
Regular updates Port scans App scans Incorporate new security practices

