Arm your agency with in-demand tech skills
Government agencies are under pressure to become more agile, protect against rising security threats and continuously deliver innovation to meet mission-critical objectives. With Pluralsight, you can tackle your biggest challenges head on, like migrating to the cloud, managing data and modernizing your IT systems. Our technology skills platform enables you to evaluate the technical abilities of your teams, align skill development to key agency objectives and build critical skills.
GET THE CLARITY YOU NEED TO LEAD Pluralsight enables you to mobilize your agency around your most critical initiatives. With Skill IQ, you can index skills across your organization to measure proficiency, uncover knowledge gaps and get recommendations to take skills to the next level. With Role IQ, you can upskill your teams into the modern tech roles you need to accomplish important goals like switching tech stacks or migrating to the cloud.
LEVERAGE PLATFORM EXPERTISE TO UPSKILL TEAMS With thousands of courses in today's most critical technology topics, your team can tap into the largest community of experts available. Our skills coverage on topics like AI, DevOps, automation, security and cloud ensures your team has the right expertise to keep up with the pace of technology.
CONTINUED ON BACK

352842-20

TRACK PROGRESS
With advanced analytics, you can feel confident your team can deliver.
Advanced skills analytics give you unprecedented visibility into your team's strengths, weaknesses and progress over time.
With advanced roles analytics, you can create and customize roles that align to your unique needs, and see role proficiency levels across your organization to build fluid teams.
With advanced channels analytics, you can follow your team's progress toward strategic initiatives with insights into channel completion and engagement by individual.

PLURALSIGHT PARTNERS WITH AIR FORCE TO SUPPORT DIGITAL U TRAINING INITIATIVE
"We see Pluralsight as a valuable strategic partner in helping our Digital U program deliver skills development training for state-of-the-art technologies that support us in our mission. With Pluralsight, not only do our airmen have access to high quality and up to date technology content, they can also leverage Skill IQ assessments to track progress in their skill development and map out a faster path for learning."
-- Lauren Knausenberger, Chief Transformation Officer, United States Air Force

Learn more at pluralsight.com/industries/government
sales@pluralsight.com +1 888-368-1240 | +1 801-784-9007

PARTNERS WITH

352842-20

