EJBCA SaaS PKI by PrimeKey
The full power of EJBCA without the need for underlying administration
Hosted. Managed. Secure. EJBCA SaaS will provide you with the full power of EJBCA Enterprise, but without the need for managing the underlying infrastructure. Set up your instance on AWS and we will take care of hosting as well as up time SLA.

EJBCA SaaS

The full power of PrimeKeys flexible PKI software EJBCA Enterprise is now available as a Service in the Cloud. Enjoy the possibilities of advanced PKI without the headache of handling the underlying administration.

Installing and maintaining a full blown PKI requires a lot of administration and management. Any Certificate Authority, such as EJBCA, relies on a robust technology stack and as always when security is in focus, there is a constant need of maintenance and updates. With EJBCA SaaS you don't need to worry about that. We offer you a full blown PKI but without the need for managing the underlying infrastructure. EJBCA SaaS reduces your internal need for management and allows you to focus on your core business, whilst assured the highest level of security. Own your PKI but let us take care of the underlying infrastructure.
EJBCA SaaS gives you full access to the advanced functionalities and abilities of EJBCA, something you normally won't get with PKI aaS solutions. You can set up complex PKI use cases with large number of certificates, any number of CAs and support multiple use cases. With EJBCA SaaS you are in full control of setting up your profiles, your protocols and configuring your PKI. The solution will provide you with the power of one of the most flexible and robust PKI products out there - in a SaaS deployment.

Setting up your instance does not require any dealings with PrimeKey sales but is something you are able to do by yourself, right now. Simply choose your subscription, sign up on AWS, configure your instance and you are good to go.
EJBCA SaaS is available in different subscription models and you can choose which ever suits your business requirements best. With freedom and flexibility you are able to grow over time, enabling even the most complex PKI solutions to benefit from our SaaS offering.
EJBCA SaaS offers you dashboard and reports to help you get an easy overview of the health of your PKI solution. This gives you full service transparency.
Need any help? We have open and free quick start guides, how-to's and product documentation for you to take part of, as well as 24/7 support services and skilled PKI professionals to assist with any questions you may have.

Highlights
· Fully featured EJBCA · Secured availability with SLAs · PrimeKey manages the underlying
technology stack · Choose your prefered HSM, AWS KMS or
AWS CloudHSM (available soon)

Reporting services examples
· PKI health status · Certificates generated, per month and day · 24 hour chart showing certificate
generation trends · Number of certificates generated by profile · Certificates about to expire over the next
30/60/90 days

EJBCA SAAS -- PKI BY PRIMEKEY

Getting started has never been so easy

Choose your subscription

Use Case SLA

XS
NonProduction PoC/Lab/ Dev/Test
99%

S
Small production workloads and Corporate IT workloads
99.95 %

M
Typical production workloads, Manufacturing / IIoT, Large corporate IT workloads
99.95%

L

XL

Coming soon Coming soon

Certificate

10 K

capacity

250 K

2.5 M

Certificate

10

performance

capacity with

KMS

25 Certificates per second

OCSP performance capacity with KMS

25 OCSP responses per second

50 OCSP responses per second

Geographic availability

1 Region ­ US or EU or AP, 1 Availability zone

1 Region ­ US or EU or AP, 2 Availability zones

For full comparison list, see doc.primekey.com
EJBCA SAAS -- PKI BY PRIMEKEY

80 Certificates per second
100 OCSP responses per second
1 Region ­ US or EU or AP, 2 Availability zones

PrimeKey is one of the world's leading PKI and signing solutions providers and has developed a number of innovative products, including EJBCA Enterprise, SignServer Enterprise, EJBCA Appliance, PrimeKey SEE, and Identity Authority Manager. As a pioneer in open-source security software, PrimeKey provides global businesses and organizations the ability to implement vital security solutions, such as e-ID, e-Passports, authentication, digital signatures, unified digital identities, and validation. PrimeKey products are Common Criteria and FIPS-certified, the company's internal processes are ISO 9001, 14001, and 27001 certified, and it has numerous Webtrust/ETSI and eIDAS-audited installations.
PrimeKey has offices in Stockholm, Sweden; Aachen, Germany; San Mateo, USA; and Melbourne, Australia. Together with a global network of technology and reselling partners, the company supports a customer roster that includes industry-leading companies and institutions across the IT, telecommunications, industry, finance and public sectors.
© PrimeKey Solutions AB All rights reserved sales@primekey.com +46 873 561 01
www.primekey.com

PrimeKey Headquarters Sundbybergsvägen 1 SE-171 73 Solna Sweden
PrimeKey Labs GmbH Krantzstr. 7 52070 Aachen

C2 ­ A PrimeKey company 951 Mariners Island Blvd San Mateo, CA 94404 USA
Crypto Workshop ­ A PrimeKey company 520 Bourke Street, Level 2 Melbourne, VIC 3000 Australia

· December 2020

