Privileged Identity Management Suite
A UNIFIED APPROACH TO PROTECT PRIVILEGED IDENTITIES AND CONTROL PRIVILEGED ACCESS
Request a free, personalized demo.
1

A comprehensive, enterprise-grade suite that empowers IT administrators to manage privileged identities as well as control and monitor access to critical information systems from a simple, consolidated platform.
1 Destroy data silos
Bring all your privileged accounts under one roof and better manage them. Do away with department or team-specific credential databases and establish collective control. Institute clear ownership and leave no privileged entity unaccounted for.
2 Prevent password fatigue
Deploy a centralized vault that scales to keep pace with your digital growth. Equip your teams with powerful discovery schedules, unlimited resource storage, and automation workflows to battle password fatigue as privileged accounts proliferate.
3 Combat identity theft
Isolate and secure privileged accounts with dual encryption using AES-256 to ward off unauthorized access. Go beyond basic login workflows and enforce multi-factor authentication or single sign-on; prove user identity before permitting access to sensitive credentials.
4 Avoid security lapses
Strengthen privileged account security with unique, unpredictable passwords and secure key pairs. Enforce strict policies for complexity requirements and regular credential rotation, including service account password updates and timely SSL certificate renewals.
2

5 Boost IT productivity
Streamline and automate password reset routines for a range of target systems to reduce manual toil. Religiously track upcoming SSL certificate expirations and renew them beforehand to avoid service downtime. Gain uninterrupted access to credentials of critical IT assets with well-architected high-availability modules.
6 Mitigate insider threat
Use granular, role-based controls to properly delegate standing or just-in-time access to privileged account credentials. Provision qualified personnel and non-human entities with time-limited access to critical information systems without sharing credentials in plain-text.
7 Establish maximum visibility
Stay informed of privileged access needs in your environment with credential request-release workflows designed to necessitate your approval. Constantly supervise privileged account access and usage with instant email alerts, live activity feeds, and comprehensive audit trails. Generate SNMP traps and Syslog messages to management systems to detect anomalies quickly.
8 Meet compliance audits
Prove compliance with privileged access control standards set by the GDPR, NIST, FISMA, HIPAA, SOX, and others through strong vaulting mechanisms, robust user authentication, access control and provisioning, and detailed reports--including audit-ready reports for PCI-DSS, GDPR, ISO/IEC 27001, and NERC-CIP.
9 Build trust relationships
Run a vulnerability-free SSL environment with regular scanning of certificates and end-servers to detect configuration flaws such as Heartbleed, POODLE, certificate revocations, and weak cipher suites. Isolate SHA-1 certificates and seamlessly migrate them to SHA-2. Demonstrate security readiness to clients and win their trust.
10 Make security usable
Make cybersecurity a positive experience for your employees. Give them a simple yet powerful platform that strikes a balance between security and usability. Shorten learning curves and enable quicker accomplishment of everyday PAM routines.
3

Take care of your organization's privileged identity management needs end to end with an integrated solution mindfully made to encompass a wide range of essential services--all delivered from a single, centralized console.
Privileged account management
Adopt a best practice approach for effective management of privileged accounts that form the security perimeter around mission-critical data servers and other IT assets in your environment--whether they use password or key-based authentication, including those of operating systems, databases, servers, applications, cloud platforms, and networking devices.
Remote access management
Establish centralized control on access pathways and define how users connect to target systems. Ensure ultimate security in all privileged connections with one-click login capabilities instead of sharing credentials in clear text. Tunnel connections through an encrypted channel gateway, requiring no direct connectivity between the user device and remote host.
4

Privileged session management
Stay aware of what your users are doing with their privileged access and prevent misuse. Facilitate advanced monitoring to check whether users--employees and third parties alike, stay within their provisioned scope. Readily answer questions regarding the `who', `what' and `when' of privileged access.
SSL certificate management
Gain complete visibility and control over your SSL environment. Stay away from risks of certificate expiration oversights, obsolete hashing algorithms and weak cipher suites that cost you your customers' trust. Experience a seamless, end-to-end management of certificate life cycles.
5

Feature overview

Quickly discover passwords, SSH keys, and SSL certificates deployed across your network and securely store them in a centralized vault.

Securely share passwords or SSH keys with users for a specified time frame and revoke permission automatically.

Easily generate SSH key pairs and associate them with users. Assign new, strong passwords for remote systems.

Schedule periodic scans to detect weak passwords, SSL configuration vulnerabilities, and more.

Regularly rotate passwords and key pairs with strict policy enforcement. Establish a robust password management routine for service accounts.

Remotely update passwords for a wide range of target systems using out-of-the-box support, custom plugin builders, and SSH command-based reset workflows.

Eliminate hard-coded credentials in configuration files and scripts with secure APIs for application-to-application (A-to-A) and application-to-database (A-to-DB) password management.

Improve DevOps security with native privileged account management plugins for Jenkins and Ansible, and replace embedded passwords with request-release workflows for SDLC automation processes.

Import certificates mapped to user accounts in your Active Directory service. Completly automate their life cycle management through integration with your in-house certificate authority.

Completely automate acquisition, deployment, renewal, and revoking of SSL certificates for public domains through out-ofthe-box integration with Let's Encrypt, GoDaddy, Microsoft CA, and The SSL Store.

6

Launch remote connections (RDP, SSH, SQL) to sensitive resources with a single click via secure, password-less tunnels.

Closely monitor active sessions in real time, supervise user activity, and terminate sessions upon detection of suspicious activity.

Record sessions and archive them as video files for future reference.

Continuously track all user operations with extensive audit logging and live activity feeds.

Reinforce user authentication with strong second factor services such as RSA SecurID, Duo Security, YubiKey, Google Authenticator, RADIUS, and email OTP.

Seamlessly integrate with Active Directory/ LDAP-based services, enterprise ticketing systems, SIEM tools, syslog servers, and SAML 2.0 service providers.

About us
As the IT management division of Zoho Corporation, ManageEngine prioritizes flexible solutions that work for all businesses, regardless of size or budget. ManageEngine crafts comprehensive IT management software with a focus on making your job easier. Our 90+ products and free tools cover everything your IT needs, at prices you can afford. From network and device management to security and service desk software, we're bringing IT together for an integrated, overarching approach to optimize your IT.

Download now

Video demo

180,000+
companies around the world trust
7

manageengine.com/pim

For questions: sales@manageengine.com Toll-free number: +1 888 720 9500
8

Zoho Corporation 4141 Hacienda Drive Pleasanton, CA 94588 USA Phone: +1-925-924-9500

