The Challenge for OLX Group

CASE STUDY

" Probely was gaining a reputation for innovation in API

and web application security

scanning. That got our attention

­ because we were breaking

new ground too. When we

approached them, they

responded quickly and

demonstrated just as much

excitement in our o ering

as us.

"

"We didn't want to be glued into one product. Probely's API

o ers multiple tools and ways to

work together. This is the

biggest value to us ­ to be able

to quickly onboard and increase

our capabilities by integrating

Probely into the mix."

"

"Other companies o er SLAs with a mere few hours of support. Probely catered for one of our major requirements ­ strong support for our corporation. They actively involve us in their roadmap. Super responsive.

Luís Gomes Security Manager Europe OLX Group

The overwhelming priority for the OLX Group was to mount a proactive defense for their companies' customer data against web application security attacks and to maintain brand integrity.
OLX Group was concerned about security for many reasons ­ mainly because their brands value customer con dence in the security of their data. OLX Group has its eye on protecting its website applications and APIs, even in countries where data protection regulations have traditionally been less rigorous. Its companies are especially susceptible because their online portals rely heavily on user information such as name, location, date of birth, email addresses, and cell phone numbers. Naturally, these companies are also worried about the reputational damage that can arise from data breaches.
With a growing number of web application development teams growing within the group and the shortage of security professionals in the market, the security team had to rely on automation in order to scale. They were looking for an API and web application security scanner that was easy to set up and use, and at the same time, provided a full-featured API.
PROBELY'S SOLUTION FOR OLX GROUP
The traditional understanding is that a large security team promises better security. But, like many large corporations with multiple companies and websites, OLX was aware that not every brand in their group had the budget and resources for this.
They built their own tool, Dalek, to increase the level of security automation. Dalek could orchestrate security tools, like a SAST or DAST scanner; quickly patch the WAF; communicate with development teams on Slack; create issues on Jira: and provide security KPIs.
The remaining part of the security puzzle, however, and something that could enable them to do more with fewer people, was to gain a better perspective on their overall security posture, as well as identify an e cient way of detecting and xing vulnerabilities fast.
By the time they reached out to the Probely team, they had already integrated a SAST scanner, and they were looking for a DAST scanner. One of the rst things they learned about Probely was that, unlike competitors, they provided a full-featured API, and that was key for what they wanted to achieve.
THE EFFICIENCY OUTCOMES FOR OLX GROUP
Probely's API enabled OLX to quickly integrate with Dalek and get started scanning web applications and APIs, including source code scanning. It provided them with evidence of vulnerabilities with no false positives, freeing time previously spent on manual validation e orts for more in-depth penetration testing. The OLX Group reported that Probely scans found more veri ed vulnerabilities than any other scanner they trialed. Probely provided them with solid evidence of each detected vulnerability ­ removing the need to trawl through results that include false positives in order to validate scan ndings. It also o ered them an insight into the potential business fallout of each reported issue and helped them prioritize appropriate actions. Overall savings were in the region of an impressive 40%.

ff  
  
 f f f f ff 
  
  fi fi ff i ff 
 f f i i 
 fi

probely.com
hello@probely.com

Probely Enterprise is a top-tier cloudbased DAST Scanner designed for enterprise companies that manage many web applications and APIs, internal or exposed on the Internet.
Probely empowers Security and DevOps or Development teams to work together to secure their web applications and APIs.
With Probely, you can automate security testing in the most e cient way. You can narrow the gap between development, security, and operations teams by integrating security testing into your development processes, from your CI/CD tool to your issue tracker.
Probely reports vulnerabilities that matter, false-positive free, and includes detailed instructions on how to x them.

Web Application and  API Security Scanner
BENEFITS
· Identify, manage and x vulnerabilities in your web
applications and APIs with a simple and intuitive user interface.
· Evidence-based scanning eliminates false positives so
that you can focus on remediation.
· Easily integrate into your SDLC process to streamline and
secure your web applications and APIs from the development phase.

· Generate vulnerability reports, including OWASP Top 10
and PCI compliance.
· Following an API- rst development approach means that
you can access all features and data of the application through our robust, well-documented API.
· Detailed "How to Fix" information to use along with
valuable scan feedback for faster remediation.
· Narrow the gap between development, security, and
operations by making security an intrinsic part of your development life cycle.


 fi 
 
 fi 
 ffi fi 
 
 
 
 
 
 


