PRODUCT BRIEF
Streaming Network Sensors
Enriched Flow Data Generation for Extreme Scale Threat Hunting

Network security teams are facing the challenge of keeping up with a barrage of threats despite massive amounts of traffic, expanded attack surfaces, zero trust requirements and complex attack vectors hidden within encrypted traffic connections. To succeed, cyber intelligence operatives and data scientists are searching for ways to leverage existing tools but achieve deeper visibility and contextual insight across endpoints and network flows.
Deep Threat Intelligence with NetQuest Flow Sensors
Whether you need to defend your network or understand how to pursue those attacking it, NetQuest's Streaming Network Sensors (SNS) provide an invaluable source of high-fidelity flow data for detecting anomalous activity, active threats and general intelligence. The SNS flow sensors feature NetQuest's industry-leading unsampled flow metering performance capable of generating flow metadata on 10G and 100G+ network traffic links, ideal for securing large-scale regional networks, data center backbones and ISP peering links.
Threat detection and response begins with the quality of the data source, so making compromises here will handicap the mission before it begins. Most detection and response systems are capable of ingesting various data types including logs, flow data and full packets. The optimal network security solutions leverage the optimal mix to deliver the maximum visibility at the minimum cost point.

Solution Benefits
 Unsampled flow data enables full network visibility and detection of low and slow cyber attacks
 Encrypted traffic analysis identifies indicators of compromise
 Layer 7 application classification provides contextual visibility to threat analytics tools
 Visibility into mobile network tunneling protocols for subscriberlevel insights

Large Backbone Networks
Network Packets

Flow Sensor
Flow Metadata

Data Lake

Threat Intelligence Cyber Tools

Analysis

Unsampled Flow Data Generation
Layer 7 Classification

Encrypted Traffic Analysis
Indicators of Compromise

Extreme Scale 100% visibility that scales with your network from a single 10G link to Nx100G in a single 1U appliance. Offload downstream tools for additional scaling by filtering flows based on application and load balancing data across many tools.
Unsampled Flow Data Generation Analyze every packet across all network flows and avoid network blind spots. Sampling mechanisms will not provide the proper level of visibility to detect modern cyber threats.
Processing Acceleration Combines industry-leading FPGA acceleration with high-performance compute to deliver line-rate DPI-based intelligence ideal for threat hunting across large backbone networks.
Leverage Existing Threat Hunting Tools Export of standards-based NetFlow and IPFIX flow records simplifies tool integration.

NetQuest's Streaming Network Sensor Product Portfolio The Streaming Network Sensors include the SN250 for standard flow visibility and the SNS1000 for extending visibility:
 Flow Generation exports standards-based 1:1 unsampled (or sampled) IPFIX flow data, scaling from a single 10G link to multiple 100G links.
 Advanced Packet Processing performs mass header/tunnel removal and passes or shunts targeted packet flows, in addition to IPFIX flow data.
 Application Classifier provides real-time contextual information by identifying protocols, user applications, and extracting additional application-specific attributes. The advanced DPI-based classification engine recognizes over 3,600 applications including classification of encrypted and evasive traffic.
 Network Security includes encrypted traffic analysis and identifies powerful Indicators of Compromise (IoC) based on network protocols (TLS, Google QUIC, SSH, etc.) and traffic heuristic signatures. Detect real-time traffic patterns that match known cyber threats.
 Mobility adds subscriber-level visibility into mobile-centric GTP tunnels and assures the proper traffic is distributed to the appropriate tools.

Model SNS250 SNS1000

Flow Generation 4 4

Advanced Packet Processing Optional Optional

Application Classifier 8
Optional

Network Security 8
Optional

Mobility 8
Optional

WWW.NETQUESTCORP.COM NetQuest Corporation 523 Fellowship Road Mount Laurel, NJ 08054 USA +1.856.866.0505 info@netquestcorp.com

