PRODUCT SNAPSHOT

CUSTOMER PAIN POINTS
Organizations struggle with measuring their workforce's cyber resilience.

Quickly outdated metrics

Keeping up with the latest threats and regulations

Accurate reporting for customers and
board members

ABOUT IMMERSIVE LABS
Immersive Labs enables you to evidence your cyber capability, risk, and resilience across technical and non-technical teams for the first time. Our platform gives you the ability to measure realtime cyber efficacy as it relates to cyber teams, developers, engineers, and executives-- all in one platform, kept up to date at the speed of cyber.
We call this Cyber Workforce Optimization.

Now you can redefine how technical and non-technical roles build human capabilities to protect against, and respond to, cyber attacks ­ all from a single platform.
With Immersive Labs you can measure team members knowledge, skills, and judgement, in real time, to prove cyber resilience.

OUTCOMES OF CYBER WORKFORCE OPTIMIZATION
· Make better informed decisions on retention, recruitment, and progression · Improve the knowledge and skills of technical and non-technical functions · Mitigate against relevant emerging threats · Prove reduction of vulnerabilities appearing in customer environments · Benchmark workforce cyber capabilities against other organizations · Drive improvement of cyber response across cross-functional teams

www.immersivelabs.com | channels@immersivelabs.com

PRODUCT SNAPSHOT

MODULES THAT POWER CYBER WORKFORCE OPTIMIZATION

Immersive Cyber

Immersive Crisis

Upskill Security Teams with Drop Executives and Incident

role-specific labs that are

Response teams into crisis

matched to emerging risk and scenarios based on the latest

industry frameworks. Using threats. Immersive Crisis

Immersive Cyber, security

measures and continually

leaders will gain valuable data improves the response of

insights on the knowledge, technical and non-technical

skills, and judgement of their teams for greater cyber crisis

cybersecurity teams.

resilience.

Immersive AppSec

Immersive Talent

Understand the security

Workforces can test and

skills across the SDLC with analyze a candidate's abilities

targeted, role-specific labs. to ensure they have role-

Immersive AppSec with

specific knowledge, skills, and

CloudSec ensures Application judgement. Using Immersive

Developers and Infrastructure Talent allows you to focus on

Engineers' security abilities the right talent and remove

keep pace with the threat

unconscious bias in the hiring

environment.

process.

BENEFITS OF IMMERSIVE LABS
Over 1,400+ labs
Web-based platform Mapped to industry frameworks including MITRE ATT&CK and NIST / NICE Gamified
Based on the latest threats
Realistic environments
Role-specific Data reporting across individuals, teams and the whole organization Promotes diversity and removes unconscious bias

www.immersivelabs.com | channels@immersivelabs.com

