CASE STUDY
HEALTHCARE DATA PROTECTION: The Right Medicine for Discount Prescription Service Companies
From administering care and insurance benefits to providing discount prescription services, healthcare organizations across the globe implement the best practices to protect patient and customer data and look to new generations of digitization to improve patient outcomes.
One particular organization, a discount prescription services company, receives and processes large volumes of sensitive data that must adhere to the stringent regulations of several governing bodies, including HIPAA (Health Information Portability and Accessibility), SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and CCPA (California Consumer Privacy Act). Much of this data comes from various external third-party sources that are then integrated with newly generated data on cloud-centric data processing platforms.
The challenge is making sure data is secure and compliant at all points across the ingestion pipeline. But having the right tools to tighten security while increasing data processing speed without cutting corners is difficult to come by.
Utilizing Protegrity's cloud data protection platform and Amazon Redshift Protector, however, would empower this discount prescription service company to do just that.

Key Highlights
Industry Healthcare, Prescription Discount Services
Challenge The prescription discount service provider required cloud data protection and authorized use for all sensitive data. Without cloud-compatible solution, all PII, PCI and PHI data would be inaccessible, and any access, transit or use of data would violate HIPAA, SOX and CCPA regulations.
Solution Protegrity made it possible to integrate with AWS Redshift's platform, providing comprehensive sensitive data protection through Amazon Redshift Protector and role-based access for authorized usage. PII, PCI and PHI encrypted protection through Amazon Redshift Protector and Protegrity Vaultless tokenization allowed the prescription discount service company to become HIPAA, SOX and CCPA-compliant.
Impact By being HIPAA, SOX and CCPA-compliant through Protegrity and AWS Redshift's encryption solutions, the prescription discount company could focus on company expansion, crucial analytics utilization and improving patient outcomes rather than worrying about the gaps in other data protection alternatives.

FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT WWW.PROTEGRITY.COM
 2021 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

Protegrity & AWS Redshift
Protegrity's platform partnership with AWS Redshift empowers organizations to increase their analytics agility, drive innovation and ensure data protection as the data moves. As patients and data teams Protegrity Amazon Redshift Protector allows patients and data teams to securely move sensitive analytic workloads to and from the Cloud.
Working in tandem with Protegrity Vaultless Tokenization methods, Amazon Redshift delivers data security with the performance that organizations need.

Amazon Redshift Protector for Healthcare
 Future-Proofs Against Evolving Regulations
 Simplifies Data Security Management and Protection
 Facilitates Access to Sensitive Data
 Promotes Secure, Cloud-Based Analytic Value Extraction
 Encrypts and Augments Privacy Protection for Resting Data
 Protects Healthcare Organizations from Costly Data Breaches

INCREASE ANALYTICS AGILITY WITH SECURE DATA WITH AMAZON REDSHIFT PROTECTOR TODAY.

Objective
To comply with HIPAA, SOX and CCPA regulations by securing PII and PCI from their large sensitive data pools in the cloud while maintaining their capabilities and flexibility to grow in the future.
Challenges
Privacy & Data Protection: Protecting large pools of customer and patient data in the cloud and as it moves proves challenging for data teams, as healthcare organizations seek to maintain and increase the speed of any interaction.
Policy & Regulation Compliance: Policy variation, regulation changes and cloud coverage compatibilities further complicate company services and initiatives, creating an administration and separation-of-duties challenge while working with third parties.
Protected Data Sharing & Analytics Use: Increasing visibility of key data-related factors and bridging the gaps between privacy and data teams while maintaining role-based data privacy poses a challenge when sharing and improving analytics quality, as protected access control, patient insight utilization and processing speeds all greatly impact the process.
Cloud Compatibility & Migration: Utilizing cloud capabilities to share, access and store sensitive data poses a challenge for data teams, as cloud coverage, platform integrations and service-specific data protection vendors leave healthcare organizations vulnerable in the gaps.

Solution: Using Protegrity's Data Protection Platform with AWS Redshift
Thanks to Protegrity's Cloud-Centric Data Protection Platform and the vast platform partnership integrations, the discount prescription service company was able to meet HIPAA, SOX and CCPRA requirements; enhance their data protection through Sensitive Data Discovery; and provide authorized transparency for insight utilization to scale.
With unparalleled security, the discount prescription service company was able to satisfy regulatory requirements and increase cross-organizational transparency without impacting data access or company growth speeds.
Impact
Utilizing Protegrity and its industry-recognized standards for encryption and tokenization, the prescription discount service's data teams were able to smoothly meet HIPAA standards and eliminate the need for homegrown solutions, thus reducing the company's overall data footprint.
And when it came to the Cloud, the company continues to look to expand on the value offered by Advanced Analytics and AI (Artificial Intelligence) through its partnership with Protegrity and AWS Redshift. Integrating platforms with the Protegrity Data Protection Platform would help provide unparalleled security and access for sensitive data for data scientists and analysts in any healthcare organization.
In time, these integrations would support the prescription discount service company's roadmap to integrate more information from cloud-data marketplaces in a secure, responsible fashion to better serve their customers and partners in a cost-effective manner.
Enhanced protection, evergreen regulatory compliance and secure sensitive data access will continue to open doors for this prescription discount service organization now and in the future.

FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT WWW.PROTEGRITY.COM
 2021 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

Business Value
Rather than slowing the company down, Protegrity's data protection solutions enabled the prescription discount service company to move faster while maintaining the necessary guardrails to ensure user privacy and meet HIPAA, SOX and CCPA compliance regulations.
The ability to become compliant alone meant the prescription discount service company could now successfully pass audits, recuperate penalty costs, enhance patient and business insight utilization and seek new opportunities in revenue generation.
Technical Value
Because regulatory compliance requirements were met, data teams and authorized users were able to access protected data and put it to good use. Cultivating partnerships and platform integration compatibility allowed the prescription discount service providers to build out data security capabilities with an automated sensitive data discovery solution.
Doing so would allow the organization to automatically scan incoming ingestion pipeline data and build a catalog of sensitive fields, thereby ushering in a new generation of analytics opportunities to promote company growth.

Protegrity for Healthcare
For more than two decades, Protegrity, a global leader in data security, has protected the sensitive data of the largest brands in the world, including healthcare organizations, dozens of global enterprises and three of the world's leading multinational companies.
Protegrity provides the only platform that lets healthcare enterprises decide which data should be classified as sensitive and allows them to control how they safeguard that data.
With Protegrity, healthcare organizations and insurance payers maintain unrestricted enterprise access to all generally available data security technology, both now and in the future, including advisory services and 24/7 support.

READY FOR THE NEXT STEP? REQUEST A PRIVACY PROTECT EXPLAINER FROM YOUR PROTEGRITY REPRESENTATIVE
VISIT WWW.PROTEGRITY.COM OR CALL 1.203.326.7200
 2021 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

