PROTEGRITY INSIGHTTM FOR DISCOVERY
Data Sheet
Protegrity Insight for Discovery is a database-agnostic, sensitive information discovery and tracking tool. It is designed to reduce, manage, and control the risk associated with storing sensitive data as well as the disruption and financial impact of multiple or thirdparty enterprise data audits.
Think of data regulation in terms of an iceberg--ignorance of what lies beneath the waterline is no excuse for noncompliance. Think about analytics in terms of a puzzle--without all the pieces it is impossible to see the bigger picture.
Discover Success Starting data-driven projects with discovery and classification accelerates their completion, optimizes processes, and consistency while quickly reducing enterprise cost and risk. Knowing where sensitive information resides sets realistic expectations for managing the scope, cost, and timeframe of data projects, including security and regulatory compliance.
Dashboard Overview
Discover Simplicity Organizations that do not know where sensitive data resides find it hard to prioritize data security and privacy risks, and regulatory goals, thus struggling with where to start compliance and data security projects. Without the ability to quantify risk, it is harder to successfully strategize data and justify the budgets necessary for keeping up with digital and regulatory change. Discovery and classification of sensitive information enables organizations to quickly and confidently jumpstart data-centric projects, including GDPR, PCI, and HIPAA compliance.
 2022 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

Insight Features
 Cross-platform coverage  Highly-scalable architecture, elastic and parallel
processing, sampling, and partial results  Patent-pending classification technique with
classifiers on multiple features  Classifiers are weighted based on the probability
of accuracy
Insight Benefits
 Ability to measure progress, reducing risk and improving security posture
 Supports new project scope and growth  Simplifies compliance with regulatory
requirements such as GDPR Privacy Impact Assessments, PCI audits, etc.  Insight into enterprise systems that represent risk to data privacy and security  Performance is independent of target system capacity
How Insight Works
 Goes through the data sources it is pointed at and opens as many items as possible to discover sensitive data wherever it exists
 Associates and records data classifications as directed (tags, labels, data element types)
 Positive results are stored and classifiers show a confidence percentage
 Automatically compares previous and current scan results to identify and understand anomalies within the environment

Discover Continuity Stay secure and in control of sensitive data exposure by continuously measuring and assessing gaps and violations to drive timely actions with Protegrity's data discovery enterprise solutions. Protegrity's automated data discovery enables organizations to keep up with digital and regulatory change in enterprises with rapidly evolving IT landscapes. Leverage data discovery and classification techniques to maintain an up-to-date data record which form the basis of GDPR Privacy Impact Assessments and Codes of Conduct, PCI audit scope, policy and definition and implementation. Users can also implement, monitor, and change management necessary to assure regulatory compliance and reduce business risk.
Protegrity Insight for Discovery overcomes many of the challenges associated with traditional data discovery tools:  Analyzing large, distributed data stores is no longer slow and expensive  Sensitivity confidence rating reduces risk  Interpreting results is no longer manual and high risk and priorities are clearly identified  Agility to respond to an evolving data landscape is consistently assured
Discover Confidence Identify and locate sensitive data enterprise-wide so your brand can know what to protect as a priority and shape policies accordingly for compliance with industry regulations and customer expectations, without compromise to business success.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, EMAIL INFO@PROTEGRITY.COM
 2022 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

Dashboard Classifications
"Businesses that want to be able to remain competitive need to be able to not only capture important information, but also turn that information into functional, decision-affecting resources. Data discovery helps make this possible. -- Salesforce
Protegrity USA, Inc. (Global Headquarters) 1165 E Wilmington Avenue Suite 200 Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 1.203.326.7200 1.650.431.7000
Protegrity (Europe) 1 St Katherine's Way London, E1W 1UN +44 1494 857762

