OVERVIEW

UNLEASH THE POWER OF SECURE DATA
Protegrity safeguards privacy, ensures data is protected everywhere, and fuels innovation with secure AI.
Who We Are
Protegrity aspires to protect the world's most sensitive data--whatever it is and wherever it resides at any given moment. Our platform frees businesses from the constraints typically associated with the access and fine-grained protection of sensitive data, so they can have the confidence to create better customer experiences, make intelligent decisions, and fuel innovation.

Data knows no boundaries, nor should data protection.
Protegrity's technology is built for data ubiquity. We secure data to empower businesses to thrive. What's more, the types of data that are most critical in driving innovation--through advanced analytics, machine learning, and AI--are those deemed most sensitive and must be safeguarded. Sensitive data chronicles how customers and employees engage, and once harnessed, it reveals insights and outcomes that are game-changers for businesses.

The Data Dilemma
Businesses have many assets, but data is among the most valuable. This data takes many forms, and it is regularly analyzed to provide better services, improve outcomes, innovate products, and drive new revenue channels.
There is one catch, though: Much of this data is often sensitive. It's information that enterprises have been entrusted to keep safe. Unfortunately, many organizations can't make good on the promise of making data--a carrier of intelligence that drives outcomes and increases value--an integral part of business.

Protegrity helps enterprises overcome these hurdles by securing sensitive data and maintaining the highest level of data privacy and compliance.
With Protegrity, businesses can innovate responsibly, knowing they have laid the foundation for a data protection strategy that allows them to be on the side of people and business, simultaneously, without sacrificing one for the other.

Experience Matters.
Protegrity has a long history of innovation in data privacy and security. This heritage grounds us as we work with the world's leading brands and our technology partners to consistently transform our software platform to provide companies with the latest and best data-security capabilities.
For more than two decades, Protegrity has delivered granular protection for the sensitive data of the most innovative and recognizable brands on the planet.
Throughout our journey, we've kept pace with ever-changing cloud-supported and on-premises technologies, always adapting to meet the needs of customers and partners. In that regard, Protegrity, today, is a re-imagined, innovation-driven company built atop a rock-solid foundation.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

Who Protegrity Protects

Data Privacy

Data Security

Data Analytics

3 of the 5 top U.S. banks

One of the largest credit card issuers

43% of private U.S. One of the largest

health insurers

credit monitors

U.S. Government entities
One of the world's largest retailers

One of the largest airline ticketing services

One of the largest movie studios
One of the top 5 largest sovereign wealth funds in APAC

One of the top 3 largest German retailers
20 IT and professional services companies power enterprise modernization with Protegrity

Choice. Control. Confidence.
Protegrity gives you choice to protect data where and how you choose to use it, control over how data is protected enterprise-wide, and confidence that the data is secure even if a breach occurs. This allows you to leverage data--including its application in advanced analytics, machine learning and AI--to do great things without worrying about putting customers, employees, or intellectual property at risk.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

Broad Partner Ecosystem
To successfully support our customers with data security, and to do it at scale, we maintain a position of neutrality and inclusion--one that is compatible with on-premises, hybrid-cloud, and multi-cloud environments. We aim to be inclusive in our partnerships so we can help all companies, no matter where they store their data. With such openness, we hope to never hinder anyone's ability to on-board new technologies because we won't--or don't--support them. All the while, we are developing new offerings, reaching new market segments and regions, and forming new strategic alliances.
World Class Support Team
With our staff available 24/7, you are never more than a phone call or email away from support. What's more: We offer instructor-led training that features hands-on case studies and exercises to build a solid base of knowledge for your employees. That includes our pilot program Jumpstart, which offers up to six months of training on Protegrity tools, and our five-day Discover workshop, which helps organizations scan, classify, catalog, and analyze their sensitive data. We are committed to ensuring you have the most successful experience deploying the Protegrity Data Protection Platform and our business-focused solutions.

Our Purpose is Clear
We empower intelligence-driven organizations to use data to fuel innovation with secure analytics and artificial intelligence, without fear of violating compliance or jeopardizing privacy. To make this vision a reality, we protect sensitive data anywhere and everywhere to create secure data agility that aligns with the speed of modernbusiness.
IN THE END, WE STRIVE TO BE THE GLOBAL STANDARD FOR UBIQUITOUS DATA PROTECTION.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

THE PROTEGRITY DATA PROTECTION PLATFORM
Businesses need a data-centric security strategy. Businesses need ubiquitous data protection. Businesses need Protegrity.

How To Do Great Things
As the industry's first and only ubiquitous data protection solution, the Protegrity Data Protection Platform allows businesses to leverage secure data--including its application in advanced analytics, machine learning, and AI--to do great things without worrying about putting customers, employees, or intellectual property at risk.
With Protegrity, innovative businesses win in an ever-changing, increasingly competitive digital economy, by activating secure AI strategies that accelerate growth.
The platform's transparent controls and comprehensive protection capabilities give businesses the confidence to charge ahead with cloud-supported data-driven initiatives, including advanced analytics, machine learning, and AI. The platform supports data protection for the industry's leading and emerging data stores, and it protects data on-premises, in the cloud, and across SaaS architectures.

Business Agility
Our commitment to enable business agility is illustrated by our ability to secure sensitive data everywhere, as data transformation, cloud migration, and advanced analytics initiatives become strategic imperatives. And business confidence is bolstered by our many integrations with industry-recognized data-system providers, allowing us to protect data whether it resides on-premises, in the cloud, or across both environments.
Protegrity's tried-and-true data protection methods, including tokenization and anonymization, work in concert with centralized policy enforcement to ensure data is always secure across the myriad of data warehouses, file servers, big data systems, and mainframes that underlie operational, transactional, and analytical systems and programs.
Indeed, businesses' ability to tap into the power of data--through analysis, optimization, and the prediction of outcomes--will separate the winners from the losers in this digital economy.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

THE PROTEGRITY DATA PROTECTION PLATFORM
Businesses need a data-centric security strategy. Businesses need ubiquitous data protection. Businesses need Protegrity.
The Industry Standard
The Protegrity Data Protection Platform secures data where it resides-- not just when it is motion. Rather than creating copies of data or just masking it--leaving the source data vulnerable as some security platforms do--Protegrity protects the actual data.
Whether your world is Security and IT, Compliance, DevOps and Tech, Chief Data Officer, or you represent the line of business in retail, financial services, or healthcare, the Protegrity Data Protection Platform will help close security gaps and simplify the management of associated policies. It easily integrates with all transactional systems, distributed architectures, big data and analytical systems--whether they are on-premises or in hybrid-cloud infrastructures.
With a cohesive approach to data protection, businesses can extract transformative insights to fuel growth, knowing sensitive data is always secure.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

OUR DATA-PROTECTION METHODS
Tokenization. Encryption. Anonymization.
With the Data Protection Platform, customers can replace information fields with artificial identifiers, or pseudonyms. To pseudonymize data, the platform can either encrypt the data--using mathematical algorithms and cryptographic keys to change data into binary cyphertext--or apply Protegrity's vaultless tokenization method (PVT), which converts cleartext data into a random string of characters.
Organizations might further want to anonymize data for a variety of reasons, especially to participate in data exchanges and marketplaces where data can be shared and monetized. Our anonymization allows the data to be irreversibly protected.

TOKENIZATION

ENCRYPTION

ANONYMIZATION

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

THE PLATFORM'S SOLUTIONS
Protegrity offers three solutions that separately address the significant challenges of securing data: respecting individual privacy, making data accessible for AI-driven initiatives, and protecting data as it's used across a wide variety of cloud environments. Our solutions collectively arm innovative businesses the world over to win in an ever changing, increasingly competitive digital economy.

PRIVACY PROTECT
Protegrity Privacy Protect empowers businesses to activate and extract value from sensitive data and engenders trust by ensuring the privacy of customers and employees is always preserved.

AI PROTECT
Protegrity AI Protect creates opportunities to harness the sensitive data that is proven to be most effective in activating advanced analytics, machine learning, and AI.

CLOUD PROTECT
Protegrity Cloud Protect advances data protection across cloud technologies so enterprises can safely rebuild their global infrastructure in the cloud.

SO, WHY PROTEGRITY?
Access to secure data allows companies to generate revenue, innovate, reduce costs, create better products and services faster, comply with regulations, and maintain privacy. Protegrity protects all that data, no matter where it is, no matter what it is, no matter how it's used. We unlock the potential of secure data to fuel innovation and protect the world's most sensitive data.

© 2022 Protegrity Corp. all rights reserved.

Protegrity: The global standard for ubiquitous data protection. Email info@protegrity.com for more info.

