ENTERPRISE SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR
Unified, consistent security management across all data assets

Data Sheet

As data continues to amass exponentially in the enterprise, so too does the risk generated by unsecured sensitive data. This data can often be found (or hidden) within multiple heterogeneous systems, applications, and platforms inside and outside of the enterprise, making consistent data security and visibility extremely challenging.
Protegrity's Enterprise Security Administrator (ESA) is an intuitive, comprehensive management interface for centralized, visual administration of data security policies, key management, auditing and reporting of sensitive data assets across the enterprise. Delivered as a soft appliance and hardened for high security, ESA comes equipped with built-in backup and restore functions, granular access controls and separation of duties.

Enterprise-Wide Platform Support
ESA makes it easy to manage the security of various systems across the enterprise from a single, centralized console. By integrating with Protegity Data Protectors located at various endpoints, ESA enforces consistent, efficient security enterprise-wide, and unifies all auditing and reporting into a single interface. Protectors can seamlessly secure big data, databases, cloud applications, file servers, application and more.

GENERAL ARCHITECTURE

Enterprise Security Administrator
Policy Management Key Management Audit & Report Management

Data Protectors

Policy Audit Logs

Communication Agent Policy
Enforcement Agent

Key Benefits
 Improve security, governance and visibility for all sensitive data across the enterprise from a single interface
 Centralized policy and key management, auditing and reporting
 Monitor all services and activities on sensitive data in a single pane of glass
 Utilize advanced access controls and security features, including separation of duties
 Dependable as a highly resilient platform with built-in backup and restore

Visual Administration & Management
ESA allows security administrators to manage and monitor servers, services and key system metrics, like CPU, memory, logs and disk usage, in a single pane of glass. Users can also create, schedule and manage tasks, backup or visually restore, with a pre-defined frequency or time period, and receive real-time notifications on the dashboard, or email/HTTP alerts, based on the rules set.

 2022 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

Unified Policy, Govermance, and Key Management
ESA provides the ability to centrally set data security policy (who/what/where/how) and deploy to Protegrity Protectors located at various endpoints in the enterprise. Policies enable different users to access only the data they are entitled to, based on the roles defined. ESA offers federated data governance to allow enterprise wide data security posture that is consistent globally, while also being able to accommodate local/regional laws and privacy policies (like data residency.)
ESA also offers integrated, comprehensive enterprise key management (EKM) capabilities. Keys can be managed from a single, centralized repository for various protection points across the enterprise. ESA offers key state management including key-encryption key (KEK) handling and rotation. Protegrity EKM also features the flexibility to integrate with external Hardware Security Module (HSM) systems and supports the NIST 800-57 standard.

MANAGE DATA SECURITY POLICY

Aspect

Definition

What

Sensitive data to be protected

How

Method(s) of data protection used

Who

Users that are authorized to access sensitive data

Where

Systems/applications in which policy is enforced

Built-in Access Controls with Flexible External Integration Security administrators can manage users and roles inside ESA with a built-in LDAP directory service and integrate with external LDAP or Active Directory services. Advanced security is provided in the form of a two-factor authentication, where users have to take an additional step to authenticate, using standard mobile devices, such as Android or iPhone.
Separation of Duties (SoD) ESA enables organizations to prevent unauthorized technologists, such as DBAs, programmers, or system engineers from accessing sensitive data in the clear by segregating security duties from systems administration with the data security policy. Security administrators can also be prevented from viewing sensitive data as a part of SoD objectives.

FOR MORE INFORMATION, EMAIL INFO@PROTEGRITY.COM
 2022 Protegrity. All rights reserved.

For over 15 years, Protegrity has set the standard in precision data protection, helping enterprises secure and use a perpetually growing store of sensitive data. Through granular protection and intelligent role-based empowerment, Protegrity helps companies focus on growth, development and optimization. By securing their internal and customer data, companies can embrace new ways to share while remaining compliant.
Protegrity USA, Inc. (Global Headquarters) 1165 E Wilmington Avenue Suite 200 Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 1.203.326.7200 1.650.431.7000
Protegrity (Europe) 1 St Katherine's Way London, E1W 1UN +44 1494 857762

