SOLUTION BRIEF
See and Secure Your Hybrid, Multi-Cloud with RedSeal Classic
Know Your Environment, How It's Connected and What's at Risk

As the frequency of cyberattacks grow, the attack surface is constantly growing and shifting as organizations expand their networks. A digital transformation is also accelerating the migration to the cloud. Security teams are scrambling to manage security for resources in one, two or more public clouds as well as for resources remaining on premises. Most cloud security tools focus on cloud, but don't take into account on-premise environments, leaving a gap in your understanding of your network.
The RedSeal Classic cloud security solution accurately identifies resources exposed to the Internet and brings all your network environments--public clouds, private

clouds, and on premises--into one comprehensive, dynamic visualization so that you can:
 Ensure your critical resources aren't exposed to the Internet
 See your entire network in one comprehensive, dynamic visualization
 Validate your network inventory is accurate and securely configured
 Continuously verify compliance mandates according to industry best practices
 Prioritize vulnerabilities based on network location and access, not just severity score

Load Balancers

Firewalls

Host and Vulnerability
Data

AWS VPC Partners

DMZ

VMWare NSX

Google GCP

MSFT Azure

Wireless

Data Center

Remote Worker Oracle Cloud

What's really on your network? How is it connected? And what's at risk? With RedSeal, you can:
Ensure Your Critical Resources Aren't Exposed to the Internet Several of the largest data breaches occurred when cloud misconfigurations left critical resources exposed to untrusted networks.
 RedSeal's cloud security solution accurately identifies resources exposed to the Internet with the most comprehensive network security modeling capability in the industry, including public cloud (AWS, Azure, GCP and OCI), software-defined private cloud technologies (VMware NSX, Cisco ACI) and on-premise, including third-party virtual firewalls in the cloud
 Visualize all access within and across public and private clouds, along with on-premise networks
See Your Entire Network in One Comprehensive, Dynamic Visualization You can't secure what you can't see. Trust what you see is complete with a RedSeal model that provides context of your true, as-built environment in a single, unified view.
 Quickly visualize all access paths­intended and unintended­across your infrastructure
 Query the underlying rich data to produce detailed access paths--even those without live traffic--and pinpoint rules affecting access
 "How can A get to B, and if so ­ or if not ­ which network devices, over which ports and protocols, and which rules are allowing or blocking access?"
Validate Your Network Inventory is Accurate Are you network resources accounted for? With RedSeal:
 Discover the dark space across your entire network including cloud, on-premise, private clouds, and find missing network devices

Continuously Verify Compliance with Industry Benchmarks
With RedSeal's continuous compliance monitoring and reporting, you can be ready to prove your compliance at any time.
 Perform network device configuration hardening by validating configurations against industry compliance standards such as DISA-STIG and CIS Benchmarks, including CIS checks for AWS and Azure
 Validate visually your network segmentation policies and continuously monitor and verify that you're in compliance with both internal and external compliance mandates such as PCI, NERC-CIP, and CMMC
 Meet stringent government requirements such as NIST, RMF, SAP (Special Access Programs), DFARS, CIS and SCADA
 Model proposed changes to the network and check them for exposure to vulnerabilities and violations of access and segmentation policies to understand potential issues before going live
Prioritize Vulnerabilities Based on Location and Access
RedSeal adds network context into your vulnerability management program so that you can prioritize the highest risks first across your entire hybrid cloud environment.
 Calculate vulnerability risk scores that take into account not only vulnerability severity and asset value, but also downstream risk based on the accessibility of vulnerable assets
 Compare your scan data with your RedSeal network model to identify and resolve any gaps in your vulnerability scanner coverage
 Visualize all reachable assets for optimal scanner placement
 Efficiently triage and plan mitigation of unpatchable vulnerabilities through containment or isolation

 Combine endpoint data from all sources and identify coverage gaps comparing your CMDB,
endpoints and vulnerability data

Hybrid, Cross-Fabric Modeling
RedSeal has the most comprehensive network security modeling capability in the industry, with an end-to-end approach of your as-built network, including public cloud (AWS, Azure, GCP and OCI), software-defined (VMware NSX, Cisco ACI) and on-premise.
Public Cloud Service Providers

Software Defined Networks

SD-WAN

Third Party Firewalls

Add Network Context to Your Security Ecosystem
RedSeal's integrations improve the efficacy of leading security products, giving security teams unprecedented network context within the tools they're already using.

RedSeal Professional Services
RedSeal's Professional Services Team is available to help your organization with an initial cloud visibility assessment or offer fully managed services to continuously monitor your cloud deployment.
RedSeal can also work with you on an ongoing basis with tiered fully managed services at three levels:
 Cyber Visibility includes network and endpoint inventory assessment and secure configuration assessments.

Only RedSeal can tell you:
 What resources you have across all your public cloud and on-premises environments, and what access is possible
 Where you have unintended access that exposes your critical resources to the Internet
 If your hybrid, multi-cloud environment meets security compliance standards
 Are your vulnerabilities prioritized properly based on access and not just severity score?

 Cyber Compliance adds network segmentation and compliance monitoring (PCI-DSS, NERC-CIP and
internal policies) as well as security change reviews.

Trusted by all four branches of the military, the world's most trusted financial institutions, healthcare systems and power grid companies.

 Cyber Risk Management adds incident investigation; security posture monitoring; vulnerability risk
prioritization and cyber risk assessment.

Request a demo today. Call 888 845 8169 or +1 408 641 2200 or email info@redseal.net.

ABOUT REDSEAL (redseal.net) RedSeal -- through its cloud security solution and professional services -- helps government agencies and Global 2000 companies measurably reduce their cyber risk and show where their resources are exposed to the internet. Only RedSeal's award-winning cloud security solution can bring all network environments­ public clouds (AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform and Oracle Cloud), private clouds, and on premises -- into one comprehensive, dynamic visualization. RedSeal verifies that networks align with security best practices; validates network segmentation policies; and continuously monitors compliance with policies and regulations. It also prioritizes mitigation based on each vulnerability's associated risk. The company is based in San Jose, California.
1600 Technology Drive, 4th Floor, San Jose, CA 95110 +1 408 641 2200 | 888 845 8169 | redseal.net | info@redseal.net

