SOLUTION BRIEF
Reduce Risk
Real-time visibility and control to remediate the vulnerabilities that matter the most

With every new device, service, and application an organization adds to their environment, it becomes more and more difficult to identify policy-related risks and neutralize them before they lead to service outages and security breaches.

The Challenge: Find the Needles in Ever-Changing Haystacks
The unrelenting expansion of enterprise networks combines with migration to cloud services to make already tangled assortment of network security policies even more impossible to manage. Lurking within the environment are firewall and cloud network security policies that are outdated, no longer needed, incorrectly set up, or simply permit access to users and services that should be locked out.

All it takes is one rule that accidentally opens the wrong access path to render a state-of-the-art firewall useless to prevent an attack. Seemingly inconsequential policy misconfigurations can create vulnerabilities that can be exploited by an attacker.

It's nearly impossible to find and correct these high-risk rules and misconfigurations by hand. Using manual tools to sift through enterprise firewall and cloud security group configuration logs is simply unmanageable.

Reduce Policy-Related Risk with FireMon

FireMon's risk management solutions focus on managing policy-related vulnerabilities across the environment, assessing the overall security posture, and prioritizing the greatest risks that need to be addressed.
This is performed in a number of ways, starting with real-time risk evaluations. FireMon understands all existing rules in the environment, and what risks they pose. The innovative Security Concern Index continually reviews the entire rule repository and delivers a real-time list of prioritized rules that violate custom business rules, go against industry best practices, or are identified as opening critical vulnerabilities using scanner feeds from sources including Qualys and Rapid7.
FireMon also allows organizations to conduct risk and threat modeling to evaluate the impact of exploits and then get recommended patches for the problems--and run simulations to see the effect of applying various available updates to help prioritize patching. FireMon provides the tools needed to stop an attack before it even starts.
Finally, once the policies have been cleaned up, FireMon's risk prevention guardrails prevent the accidental creations of new policy-related vulnerabilities. Every new rule and proposed change is evaluated in real time, prior to implementation, to ensure they don't open unintended new opportunities for attack.

90%
FASTER time to block threats
80%
REDUCTION in misconfigurations
LESS THAN 10-SECONDS
to detect and model risks across entire environment

©2022 FireMon, LLC. All rights reserved. All other product and company names mentioned are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

Key Features

Consolidated Risk Assessments FireMon gets organizations up and running quickly with over 20 preconfigured compliance and risk assessment reports including asset exposure analysis, insecure services, application outage protection, and overly permissive access. Any of these can be customized or new ones can be created using over 500 preconfigured as controls. In addition, FireMon allows users to create their own controls using REGEX or FireMon's Security Intelligence Query Language.

Risk Dashboard FireMon's unified dashboard gives an overall view of compliance across the entire environment using the proprietary Security Concern Index. This real-time assessment allows tracking of risk posture over time, and calls attention to potential and actual compliance violations and vulnerabilities.

Security Concern Index
4.55
Average Security Con1c0ern Index Increase of 5.08% in 70 days
7.5

SCI Score

Vulnerability Scanner Integration Integrations with leading vulnerability scanners including Qualys, Rapid7, and Tenable give deeper insights to policy-related risks using the latest in common vulnerability and exposure data.

5

2.5

0

Apr 1

Apr 8

Apr 15

Risk Analysis and Modeling Access path analysis gives insights into how devices communicate across the network including routes, interfaces, firewalls, and NAT rules. This combined with "what if" attack assessments help detect risk and provides recommendations on how to mitigate it before it's exploited by an attacker.

Consolidated Compliance and Risk Assessments:
­ Over 20 preconfigured reports ­ Customizable reporting and alerts using over 500 included controls ­ Add custom controls with SiQL search ­ Unified dashboard with real-time Security Concern Index (SCI) ­ Access path analysis and "what if" attack assessments ­ Qualys, Rapid7, and Tenable integrations enrich rules with vulnerability data

FireMon is the only real-time security policy management platform that delivers a comprehensive risk management solution built for the complexities and scale needed for today's complex multi-vendor, enterprise environments. Supporting the latest firewall and policy enforcement technologies spanning on-premises networks to the cloud, only FireMon delivers visibility and control across the entire IT landscape to automate policy changes, meet compliance standards, and minimize policy-related risk. Since creating the first-ever policy management solution in 2004, FireMon has helped more than 1,700 enterprises in nearly 70 countries secure their networks. FireMon leads the way with solutions that extend and integrate policy management with today's latest technologies including SD-WAN, SASE, and SOAR. FIREMON.COM
©2022 FireMon, LLC. All rights reserved. All other product and company names mentioned are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. SB0194-EN-20220413-1

