Araali Networks
Proactive Risk Mitigation for Cloud Native Environments

The Cloud Native Challenge
Too many hard controls to configure  Least privilege IAM policies  Least privilege Security Group policies
Too many unmitigated Cloud Risks  Application vulnerabilities  Secret sprawl  Insecure (default) configuration

Too many Threats  Sophisticated and organized cyber criminals  Supply Chain is the new attack vector bypassing all controls  Nation-state Actors
"Breach is seldom due to one vulnerability or one misconfiguration, but a series of them leading to a successful attack path.", Abhishek Singh, CEO of Araali Networks.

Araali Solution
Araali allows you to bring modern (re-imagined) self-configuring controls to any cloud as easy as 1-2-3 as it: 1. Deploys with attributes of agentless - single
click, zero-touch, no harm 2. Identifies your top runtime risks 3. Enables you to neutralize the risk with the
click of a button (Araali Shield)

IDaaS (Okta)

Araali manages the identity of every active entity in your cloud environment (VPC). It creates deterministic least privilege policies that are more precise than IP-based ones. These policies can then be enforced by Araali to hold the legitimate entities to least privilege and deny threats of any privilege.

Customer

Araali Modern API driven UI

Data Lake

Backend

Automatic Policy Discovery

Identity & Policy Management

Alerts

API Server

Enforcement

Identity-based Audits

Cloud Native Architecture

Private Link
VMs

App1

App2

Zero Trust Enforcer
Deployed on every VM like your App (Chef/Puppet, Cloud Formation/Terraform)

Private Link
Kubernetes

App1

App2

Zero Trust Enforcer
Deployed as Daemonset One per node

3rd party Integrations

API integrations into your env.
SIEM PagerDuty Slack API Webhook
GitOps CI/CD ready

"Events like SolarWinds and Log4j sent a shockwave
across the industry. We sought a forward-looking security solution that could quickly identify and stop these attack vectors."
Pengran Zhao, LetsBloom by Standard Chartered.

Use Cases

"The level of granularity is so far above what you get
with native cloud features. It's like turbocharging Google's Beyond Prod vision."
A software company, with over 100 patents.

Vulnerability Management  Passwordless Runtime Vuln. Scanning  Proactive Vulnerability Shielding  DevSecOps / Policy As Code
Access Management  Automated IAM policies for Apps  Passwordless Access for Any DB/SaaS API  Workload Isolation and Segmentation
Threat Management  Proactive Threat Detection as a Service  Proactive Threat Containment

support@araalinetwork.com

+1-510-624-9941

