Sensitive Data Discovery
Reduce Sensitive Data Exposure. Zero Additional Infrastructure. Easy to Use.
As organizations adopt cloud, they grapple with massive data fragmentation, making it impossible to know where sensitive data resides. At the same time, the increasing risk of data privacy breaches and non-compliance with regulations can impose serious financial penalties. Sensitive Data Discovery is a SaaS application that discovers, classifies, and reports on sensitive data without any impact to production. By leveraging your existing Rubrik deployments, users get up and running in just a few minutes with zero additional infrastructure required.

AUTOMATE WITH POLICIES
Eliminate manual tagging or annual cleanups. Use predefined
policy templates or build your own to get automatically alerted on violations.

IDENTIFY SENSITIVE DATA EXPOSURE
Identify potential violations of internal compliance policies by identifying where sensitive data is located and who has access without production impact to mitigate business risk.

FACILITATE COMPLIANCE WITH PRIVACY REGULATIONS
Drive consistent, repeatable processes and ensure continuous monitoring of location of sensitive data to facilitate compliance with applicable privacy
laws such as GDPR.

BEFORE SENSITIVE DATA DISCOVERY The traditional approach consists of siloed teams, manual tagging, native auditing, and monthly to yearly cleanups. This means incomplete or inconsistent classification and excess time and money spent on audits instead of higher-value work.
AFTER SENSITIVE DATA DISCOVERY Sensitive Data Discovery scans and classifies sensitive data without agents or impact to production. Leverage pre-built policy templates to identify common data types from regulations and standards such as GDPR, PCI-DSS, HIPAA, and GLBA, or define custom dictionaries, expressions, and policies. We employ various techniques to minimize false positives.

HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT  No additional infrastructure:
Natively integrated into your existing Rubrik platform.
 No install or agents: Get started within minutes by simply toggling on the app from the UI.
 No impact to production: Index and classify on your existing backup data.
 No learning curve: Intuitive UI with policydriven automation for instant insights and significant savings.

DATA SHEET|SENSITIVE DATA DISCOVERY

HOW SENSITIVE DATA DISCOVERY WORKS 1. Configure role-based access controls to assign user permissions on data access.
2. Create a compliance policy from a custom or pre-defined template, which specifies what protected objects and types of sensitive information to search for, such as social security number, healthcare NPI, credit card number, or ITIN. Sensitive Data Discovery then performs an initial scan to surface sensitive data aligned with the policy. Users can whitelist locations where sensitive information is allowed to minimize false alerts.
3. Use agentless, incremental scanning to quickly classify new and modified data for performance efficiencies and without impact to production.
4. Search on-demand for information at any point in time to satisfy access requests. (e.g., "Where are all locations with John Smith's PII?")
5. Sensitive Data Discovery will automatically notify you on policy violations and when sensitive data resides in wrong locations.
6. Report on policy violations, track compliance progress, and help identify at-risk data.

Agentless metadata tagging: Minimal impact to Production

One Policy Engine: Identify Sensitive Data via Pre-built or Custom Rules

1000 CCN on HR_2

500 PII on NAS_2

200 SSN on FIN_Global

Policy-Driven Data Classification

CCPA

PCI DSS

GDPR

HIPAA

Custom

WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SAYING
"Data classification tasks that would have previously required expensive 3rd party auditors and multiple full-time engineers can now be completely automated. We drove over 90% operational savings by eliminating manual scripting and spreadsheet management, reducing time spent to complete hundreds of search queries from two weeks to just 1 hour."
Brandon Morris Systems Administrator
City of Sioux Falls

"Sensitive Data Discovery assists with PCI-DSS compliance efforts without risking fines, dedicating multiple resources and freeing up our employees for outcome-based value-add work. We can now automate sensitive data classification, such as credit card information, passport data, and other PII, to better understand our overall risk posture and assign data ownership."
Kevin Mortimer Infrastructure Services Manager
University of Reading

Global HQ 3495 Deer Creek Road Palo Alto, CA 94304 United States

1-844-4RUBRIK inquiries@rubrik.com www.rubrik.com

Rubrik, the Zero Trust Data Security CompanyTM, delivers data security and operational resilience for enterprises. Rubrik's big idea is to provide data security and data protection on a single platform, including: Zero Trust Data Protection, ransomware investigation, incident containment, sensitive data discovery, and orchestrated application recovery. This means data is ready at all times so you can recover the data you need, and avoid paying a ransom. Because when you secure your data, you secure your applications, and you secure your business. For more information please visit www.rubrik.com and follow @rubrikInc on Twitter and Rubrik,Inc. on LinkedIn. Rubrik is a registered trademark of Rubrik, Inc. Other marks may be trademarks of their respective owners.
20211129_v2

DATA SHEET|SENSITIVE DATA DISCOVERY

