SOLUTION BRIEF
Zero Trust Remote Access
for Third-Parties and BYOD

Elevate Third-Party & BYOD Access and Control ­
Create Trust Boundaries to Enhance Business Outcomes
Challenges continue to rise, and more organizations than ever are reliant on third parties to provide the resources, talent, and speed to deliver on their business goals and growth. Previous ways of granting access to needed resources and applications don't fit today's security and compliance needs. Achieve continuous adaptive security that checks against profile changes and system configurations, directly controlling third-party access into your organization's resources.
Easily create global or granular policies with a clear understanding of what resources that a role, individual, or device can interact with so they will be most productive. No need for complex VPNs, network segmentations, or firewall exceptions that have limited documentation. Forgo managing the whitelisting of IP addresses. Elevate third-party and BYOD access and control by setting specifications for access that incorporate real-time contextual security information on the user, device, and requested resource. Set policies that are just right for your business needs, defining access assignment by network, cloud service, application, URL, and even individual API-level permissions.

.

Granular Access Assignments

Role-based policies, Trust Score requirements, Time of Day policies, etc.

Network Servers

Cloud Infrastructure
Cloud Services
Jira, Slack, GitHub

Applications
SAP, Oracle, WorkDay

Database
SQL Queries

URLs
Intranet

APIs
Read, Write, Admin

Security for All Types of Access Needs
Consistently and safely address all of the access and security needs for the growing use of third-party and outsourced personnel across your organization.
> Engineering and DevOps teams > Project-specific partners > Temporary staff, contractors, and interns > Specialized consultants/auditors
Easily onboard and offboard third-parties, accommodating access without introducing complex security overhead or management. Upon contract expiration, access rights are automatically de-provisioned.
Clientless Access
With Banyan, simple, secure clientless access to websites and infrastructure is a snap ­ no VPNs or clunky VDI systems required. User-to-application segmentation uses least-privilege envelopes to limit exposure to specific UI and APIs. And, Banyan offers pre-built policies for common web applications like WordPress, Drupal, Jenkins, Jira, and Confluence.
Establish Conditional Trust
We believe that trust has to be based on all available information at the time access is requested. Relying on what was assumed upon initial configuration, or from the last compliance review is not enough. Banyan continuously re-authorizes access based on real-time contextual information. Access is denied when trust and security posture fails to reach the thresholds set based on your business security requirements.

Getting It Just Right
Banyan's Cloud Command Center allows quick set up and implementation. Assign least-privilege access with human readable logic statements for easy understanding and review. Define and dynamically adjust policies with changes taking effect immediately ­ no waiting for users to update or accept VPN configuration changes. Enable easy third-party and BYOD resource access while adhering to security and compliance requirements with Banyan Security's Zero Trust Remote Access platform.
Seamless User Experience and Organizational Integration
> Integrate with existing cloud, identity, and SSO tools > End-to-end encryption, from user device to
requested resource > Achieve one-click SSH, RDP, and Kubernetes access > Eliminate complicated virtual desktop infrastructure
(VDI) environments, as the lightweight Banyan app continuously validates device security in real-time > Easily integrate access logs into security and incident management systems with robust APIs

Device Trust Enforcement
Designed for unmanaged devices, third-parties can download and install the lightweight Banyan app, self-register, and gain access in minutes. Built for high-security and regulated environments, Banyan can enforce specific devices be used to access resources. Device trust scores are continuously calculated and checked against policy.

Banyan Security Remote Access platform evaluates and provides security verification logging and alerting when access is denied due to conditional trust requirements not being met.

About Banyan Security
Banyan Security provides secure, zero trust "work from anywhere" access for employees, developers, and third parties without relying on network-centric solutions like VPNs. User and device trust scoring along with continuous authorization ensures the highest level of protection while providing seamless and productive access to hybrid and multi-cloud apps, hosts, and servers. Banyan Security currently protects tens of thousands of employees across multiple industries, including finance, healthcare, manufacturing, and technology. To learn more, visit www.banyansecurity.io or follow us on Twitter at @BanyanSecurity.
Banyan Security, Inc. | +1 415-498-0635 | www.banyansecurity.io © 2021 Banyan Security, Inc. All rights reserved.
Brief_ZTRAfor3rdParties_20210322

