VULNERABILITY CAN LEAD TO LOSS As cyberattacks become more sophisticated, prevention is critical for a successful security strategy. And as mission-critical communications networks become interconnected to other IP-based systems, they are just as exposed to cyber threats and require proactive risk management. So how are you protecting your networks from malicious attacks like these?

STAY AHEAD OF THREATS
Attacks against organizations both large and small are becoming more common. In May 2019 the City of Baltimore's networks were halted by ransomware costing the city $18 million dollars1. Later the same year 23 Texas towns, many of which are small communities, were simultaneously attacked by ransomware taking systems offline for days and weeks2.

Having security elements like anti-malware, firewalls or intrusion detection systems inspecting traffic and traversing the network are not enough. You need to constantly monitor your network for possible cyberattacks because an incident can not only bring your network down - it can also cost you millions, if not billions of dollars.

67%
OF RANSOMWARE ATTACKS IN 2019 TARGETED STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS3

SOPHISTICATED REMOTE MONITORING
Experienced, highly trained and certified security professionals are staffed 24/7 at Motorola Solutions' Security Operations Center (SOC), dedicated to monitoring the secure state of your IT systems. Using automation and analytics to process and handle traffic bursts of thousands of messages in one second, our security systems can pin-point substantiated threats and alleviate false positives and omissions. Programmed with auto-learning algorithms, our SOC will become more informed over time from your system log data and alerts. From this, actionable tickets can be assigned, investigated and resolved.

SOLUTION BRIEF SECURITY MONITORING SERVICES

SYSTEMATIC APPROACH TO MITIGATE RISKS

DETECT
Proactive event monitoring and automated alerts

ANALYZE
Real-time analysis correlation

INVESTIGATE
Incident investigation and evaluation

RESOLVE
Complex incident resolution

REPORT
Advanced data analytics

SECURITY OPERATIONS CENTER (SOC)

Our security team works with your organization to make sure all issues are resolved quickly. We use a systematic process to detect, analyze, investigate, resolve and report on incidents that occur on your system.
DETECT POTENTIAL THREATS Your Motorola Solutions systems are pre-configured with intrusion detection sensors, authentication and logging server integration, and antivirus integration to detect worms, viruses and other forms of malicious software. Threat intelligence from global and social media news is also constantly fed into the system. Tools are in place to capture and examine system logs throughout your network infrastructure, devices, operating systems, software and applications. If a malware or intrusion event is detected on your system an alert is generated and appropriate action is taken.
ANALYZE DATA AUTOMATICALLY Using machine learning algorithms, all events on your system are automatically filtered to actual incidents, omitting false threats. This system is programmed and trained to identify intrusion attempts, malware infection, network-based scanning and authentication activity.
INVESTIGATE INCIDENTS Incident details are generated automatically and sent to security analysts who thoroughly research and analyze the incident, leveraging the knowledge base for skilled triaging and troubleshooting.
RESOLVE AN INCIDENT If an incident is confirmed on your system, our technologists will work quickly to identify and implement a fix. They will monitor the event until it is fully resolved and the incident is closed to your satisfaction. To close out the case they will provide on-site assistance to make sure the situation is remedied and your system returns to full operational mode.
REPORT INSIGHTS We want to keep you informed of any changes to your system health. Our post-incident reports are quickly generated, used to implement preventative measures shared with your team and leveraged in future security operations to better protect your network.

MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS YOUR TRUSTED PARTNER
As a leading provider of mission-critical solutions, we understand your mission can only be as secure as your partners enable you to be. Our goal is to provide you with transparency, accountability and security that's built-in from the start.
We believe that our set of highly knowledgeable people with industry certifications, best-in-class organizational policies and procedures and state-of-the-art automation and analytics tools enables us to uniquely deliver enhanced cybersecurity solutions that address your needs today and in the future.

GLOBAL SCALE & EXPERIENCE
300+
SECURITY EXPERTS FOCUSED ON 24/7 MONITORING &
RESPONSE
9B
SECURITY EVENTS PROACTIVELY
MONITORED EACH DAY
100%
CO-MANAGED APPROACH FOR VISIBILITY AND CONTROL
20+
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE DEVELOPING
CYBERSECURITY SOLUTIONS

GET VISIBILITY INTO YOUR SYSTEM Our management portal provides a view of the overall security risk posture of your system. At any time you can log in to a portal and get a snapshot of your system's security to provide you with peace of mind that everything is operating as expected.
Monitor the security health of your system from your laptop

For more information on our Security Monitoring Services contact your Motorola Solutions representative or visit us at www.motorolasolutions.com/cybersecurity

Resources 1 https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/06/baltimores-bill-for-ransomware-over-18-million-so-far 2 https://www.cnbc.com/2019/08/19/alarm-in-texas-as-23-towns-hit-by-coordinated-ransomware-attack.html 3 https://blog.barracuda.com/2019/08/28/threat-spotlight-government-ransomware-attacks/

Motorola Solutions, Inc. 500 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Il 60661 U.S.A. motorolasolutions.com
MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2020 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. 08-2020

