Secure DevOps

DEVOPS IS A MODERN SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT APPROACH that strives to bring development and operations teams together to improve efficiency and outcomes by focusing on shared business goals. DevOps follows and expands on key principles of the Agile software development and Lean engineering movements and represents a fundamental shift in how large, distributed enterprise organizations develop and deliver software.
By cultivating cross-functional collective engagement in software development projects throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC), DevOps affects the people, processes, and technology of an organization. DevOps also requires adopting and implementing cutting-edge practices based on the primary tenants of collaborative culture, automation, datadriven processes, infrastructure as code, and ubiquitous, real-time system monitoring.

The features and benefits of DevOps include
Consistently develop software systems with higher quality and accuracy of project budgeting and estimation
Increase visibility and stakeholder input into features for the next release as it is being developed
Engage stakeholders early and consistently throughout the SDLC, leading to fewer defects and incorrect requirements
Build trust between software development and IT, enabling organic process improvement and risk mitigation
Maximize business value by enabling technical staff to adapt to changing requirements or environmental factors

How We Can Help
We help you establish robust DevOps capabilities by following a process in which we do the following.
Analyze--Analyze your organization's business goals, processes, and development/operational challenges to assess the status quo, bottlenecks, and areas that could get maximum impact from process improvement efforts.
Design and Develop--Develop a customized strategy and roadmap to improve your organization's culture, processes, and tools to support its business needs and improve its software development quality, transparency, and delivery while decreasing its risk.
Apply and Measure--Provide tools and methods for your organization to enable its process measurement capabilities. Apply a process improvement strategy according to the developed roadmap and measure the quantitative impact of DevOps on metrics for collaboration, quality, transparency, and process efficiency.
Monitor--Enable your organization's development managers and teams to independently monitor DevOps practices and engage in continuous data-driven improvements to tools and methods according to your organization's unique needs.

DevOps Solutions
We offer the following solutions to help you develop a robust DevOps capability in your organization.
Training
We provide onsite or virtual courses that teach DevOps to managers, technical teams, and other stakeholder groups. We also offer advanced, hands-on DevOps training for development and operational teams.
Workshops
We conduct customized, hands-on workshops that provide comprehensive practical training, including exercises using DevOps tools and techniques throughout the SDLC, from inception to production.
Mentoring
By collaborating closely with teams and stakeholders, we assist in establishing practical guidelines to improve existing DevOps strategies and enhance collaboration among organizational teams.
Engineering Support
Our highly experienced engineers help you implement and measure your organization's DevOps tools and processes.

Analyze

Monitor

Design & Develop

Apply & Measure

About the SEI
For nearly 30 years, the CERT Division of the SEI at Carnegie Mellon University has been a leader in cybersecurity. Originally focused on incident response, we have expanded into cybersecurity areas such as network situational awareness, malicious code analysis, secure coding, resilience management, insider threats, digital investigations and intelligence, workforce development, DevOps, forensics, software assurance, vulnerability discovery and analysis, and risk management.
©2017 Carnegie Mellon University | 4359 | 08.09.2017

Contact Us
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE 4500 FIFTH AVENUE, PITTSBURGH, PA 15213-2612 sei.cmu.edu
412.268.5800 | 888.201. 4479 info@sei.cmu.edu

