From Unstructured Data to Actionable Intelligence
The OSINT platform empowering security, business and intelligence professionals to make sense of the overwhelming amount of data on the web.

Silobreaker is a powerful intelligence platform that collects and contextualises unstructured data from over a million sources. Organisations around the globe harness Silobreaker's innovative technology to extract actionable intelligence on the multitude of threats, risks, incidents and opportunities faced by their business.

Delivering at every stage of the intelligence cycle

Aggregate

Contextualise

Visualise

Disseminate

Silobreaker collects and aggregates data from nearly a million external open sources as well as proprietary and paid for sources. This includes news, blogs, feeds, social, research, press releases and reports in 18 languages.

The platform uses data fusion techniques and machine learning algorithms to process, contextualise and bring meaning to unstructured data that allows the user to make betterinformed decisions, faster.

You can view the results of your investigations in charts and other useful visualisations, making it easier to analyse and interpret information, and present the findings to other stakeholders.

Silobreaker is an intelligence tool built for collaboration. All Silobreaker content, including visualisations, can be incorporated into company reports or email alerts, ensuring complete integration with your team's workflow.

The Silobreaker advantage

Cut Through The Noise

Scale With Your Intelligence Requirements

Monitor the threats, risks, or opportunities that matter most to your organisation using fully customisable dashboards. Seamless correlation and trend analysis tools offer a 360-degree view of activities across different data sources.

Achieve a holistic view of critical events as they happen. Supporting a range of use-cases from cyber to physical threat intelligence to fraud or compliance, Silobreaker grows with your intelligence needs so you can remain agile.

Configure Your Workflows
Leverage built-in collaboration and dissemination features to efficiently deliver timely intelligence to stakeholders as and when they need it.

Enrich results further with our integration partners.

Export from Silobreaker

Our partner ecosystem leverages the combined strengths and benefits of leading products, providing seamless transitions from one tool to another.

Import to Silobreaker

For more information go to: www.silobreaker.com

