DATA SHEET
Browser Phishing Protection
Anywhere Zero-Hour Protection Against the Broadest Range of Phishing Threats available for all major browsers including, Chrome, Edge, FireFox, and Safari.

SlashNext Browser Phishing Protection provides the industry's strongest protection against zero-hour phishing threats with comprehensive protection across email, ads, social media, search, collaboration platforms, and more. SlashNext's enterprise-grade user experience to protect users with patented SEERTM threat detection technology to ensure browser users are protected from the widest range of phishing and social engineering payloads beyond credential stealing, including social engineering scams, shareware, rogue software, communication callbacks.
Complete Browser Phishing Protection from Anywhere

Credential Stealing Rogue Software Fake log-in pages Rogue apps &
extensions

Scareware Social Engineering Phishing Exploits

Fake virus alerts

Scams

Weaponized

Credit card fraud documents, etc.

Enterprise User Experience State-of-the-art zero-hour protection and enterprise-grade user experience with safe preview of malicious sites and helpful, educational threat information. Users have the ability to submit a report ticket about the incident and security administrators can automate notifications. and reporting.

THESLASHNEXTADVANTAGE
 Anywhere, Anytime Protection: 24/7 phishing protection, both inside and outside of the network perimeter
 Broadest Range of Protection: Protection on social media, SMS and collaboration platforms by detecting credential stealing, rogue browser extensions, and more
 Built to Handle Encryption Challenges : DoH & TLS 1.3 support guarantees user privacy without compromising security
 Smart User Interface: Detects and blocks phishing treats and provides users with a safe preview and helpful threat information to educate users
 Browser Support: Chrome, Safari, Edge and FireFox support across Windows, MAC, Chrome OS, and Linux operating systems
 Full Visibility: Elegant CMS enables simple deployment, management, and advanced reporting across threats, users, and devices
 No PII or Privacy Risks: Protection that doesn't violate user privacy or transmit sensitive personal data.

Elegant CMS for Full Visibility Administration and Reporting
Security administrators can easily manage groups, policies, users, and licenses. Advanced reporting and analytics features include filters to view data by threats, endpoints, and users for a full view across the enterprise--Drill-down into high-risk users, timelines, and detailed forensics information. Automate daily or weekly reporting, including incidents and executive summaries. Available in three form factors: CMS Web Portal, native SIEM dashboards and data consumption via Web APIs.

Multiple Deployment Options SlashNext Browser Phishing Protection is easily deployed and managed via leading UEM solutions. It also integrates with leading SSO solutions for simpler user provisioning and management.
Harness the Power of Real-Time with SEERTM Technology SlashNext's patented behavioral phishing detection technology uses millions of virtual browsers to detect unknown threats with unmatched accuracy. SEERTM (Session Emulation and Environment Reconnaissance) is a scalable, cloud-based threat detection technology that uses computer vision, NLP, and OCR, to dynamically inspect page contents and server behavior. Sophisticated machine learning algorithms and virtual browsers perform rich analysis to accurately detect zero-hour phishing threats and numerous enrichment artifacts.
This unique combination of techniques sees through evasion tactics and accurately detects phishing pages, even those hosted on compromised websites and legitimate infrastructure. It also follows through on all URL re-directs and performs run-time analysis on the final page of multi-stage threats.
About SlashNext SlashNext is the phishing authority and leading the fight, together with its partners, to protect the world's internet users from phishing anywhere. SlashNext end-to-end phishing protection services utilize our patented SEER technology to detect zero-hour phishing threats by performing dynamic run-time analysis on billions of URLs a day through virtual browsers and machine learning. Take advantage of SlashNext's services using mobile apps, browser extensions, and APIs that integrate with leading mobile endpoint management and IR tools.
SlashNext is headquartered in Silicon Valley and backed by top-tier venture capital firms. For more information, visit www.SlashNext.com
Request a demo today at www.slashnext.com/request-a-demo

 2020 SlashNext, Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 6701 Koll Center Parkway, Suite 250, Pleasanton CA 94566 | slashnext.com | info@slashnext.com | 800.930.8643

REV 092420

