Smartsheet

INDUSTRY: SaaS
CHALLENGE: Deploy a Compliance Automation environment for FedRAMP Moderate that expedites access to the Federal marketplace for a major SaaS business.
SOLUTION: · SecureCloud for Compliance
Automation · Support deployment
throughout the FedRAMP authorization process
SERVICES: Compliance Automation for FedRAMP Moderate
About the customer
Smartsheet is the best way to plan, capture, track, automate, and report on work at scale, enabling teams to move from idea to impact ­ fast. Smartsheet is a work execution platform that allows you to plan, capture, track, automate, and report on work.
Smartsheet gives business users and enterprises the tools they need to effectively execute on work, allowing teams to use their time to focus on growth and innovation.

Customer challenge
The majority of Smartsheet's business was being run in colocation environments. They needed to migrate their applications to the cloud but did not have in-house experience with AWS to do so.
They also needed to secure a FedRAMP-compliant environment on AWS in order to serve their SaaS document and collaboration solution to customers requiring FedRAMP compliance. They were unfamiliar with FedRAMP and needed help working their way through the complex compliance process.
Solution
Anitian proposed a solution that would deliver a FedRAMP auditready environment, with all the security controls and configurations included. This solution would greatly accelerate Smartsheet's compliance timeline, while cutting costs, simplifying future updates, and gaining their Authority to Operate (ATO), which is the ultimate goal of FedRAMP.
Prior to Anitian's SecureCloud, organizations seeking FedRAMP compliance had to build and configure a compliant environment with hundreds of security requirements. This process took an average of 12 to 24 months to complete with a price tag of $1-3M. With Anitian's SecureCloud for Compliance Automation, Smartsheet was FedRAMP-ready in under 60 days, and was able to get their ATO in under 4 months.

SecOps

SecureCloud for Compliance Automation

In addition to providing a preconfigured, pre-hardened architecture, Anitian also included our SecOps services. This provides 24x7 security and continuous monitoring (ConMon), which is required to maintain FedRAMP compliance. Moreover, Anitian provides an annual risk assessment, which is best practices for any environment and also a FedRAMP requirement.
Results and benefits

Anitian completed this record-setting engagement as part of the AWS Security Automation and Orchestration (SAO) project (now known as ATO on AWS program). The ambitious project had set the goal of automating more than a dozen common compliance frameworks for clients on AWS. Anitian has so far delivered solutions for FedRAMP, PCI, ISO/GDPR, CJIS, HIPAA, and HITRUST on the AWS cloud.
"We're very pleased with the speed and efficiency of
the SAO compliance automation deployment and Anitian's expertise to help us deploy our FedRAMP environment in AWS GovCloud (US)," said Ignacio Martinez, VP of Security, Risk & Compliance at Smartsheet. "We're looking forward to the opportunity to expand our FedRAMP-required customer base after this process is complete."

Smartsheet didn't just achieve their goals, they crushed them. They were ready to be audited just 57 days after engaging with Anitian. They received their FedRAMP ATO in record time and were able to significantly expand their government business. Smartsheet was also able to pursue additional business with the Department of Defense. As a bonus, they soon moved their unregulated workloads to AWS as a result of having a pre-built secure environment to work within.

About Anitian
Anitian is the leading cloud application security and compliance automation provider delivering the fastest path to security and compliance in the cloud.

Get in Touch

Address

© 2022 Anitian, Inc. | All Rights Reserved

