AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response

Reduce the cost and complexity of threat detection and response

Help protect your business and your brand with AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response--an intelligent managed detection and response (MDR) service that provides robust threat management in a single turnkey solution
Threat detection is one of the fastest-growing areas in cybersecurity, but talent is in short supply, leaving organizations to do more with less resources. As cybercriminals get smarter, more sophisticated, and constantly change their tactics, the burden falls to businesses to counter threats to critical networks and devices on premises, the cloud, and remote locations.
As businesses adopt digital transformation technologies, they are searching for better ways of protecting new hybrid and cloud assets. Rather than rely on purely preventative security measures, they're seeking early warning and response solutions to complete their security stack. Security information and event management (SIEM) tools can deliver massive amounts of data, but businesses may struggle to determine how to act on those insights. Facing a shortage of qualified cybersecurity professionals, and with the cost and complexity of mounting an effective detect and response program increasing, many organizations are choosing to outsource MDR services.
1

Benefits
 24 x 7 security monitoring and incident response from our world class Security Operation Centers (SOC)
 Integrate with your security and IT tools through AlienApps to extend the security monitoring and orchestration capabilities
 Built on our award winning USM platform, MTDR combines multiple essential security capabilities into one unified console
 Fueled by continuously updated threat intelligence from AT&T Alien Labs and the Open Threat Exchange
 Goal of getting your MTDR service fully operational within 30 days of signing your contract
 Personalized onboarding, including threat modeling exercises and building a custom incident response plan
 Utilize the security orchestration and automation capabilities of the USM platform to help streamline incident investigation and response activities and to help accelerate time to response
 Help your security team to respond quickly and effectively when an incident occurs, conducting incident investigations on actionable alarms and escalating based on severity
 Built in correlation rules, allowing users to immediately identify anomalous behavior, triggering alarms for the analysts
SOLUTIONS BRIEF

AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response

Managed Detection and Response (MDR) is a complex and costly process. In a 2019 survey, 76% of responders reported that MDR is more difficult now than it was 2 years ago, and 77% of cyber professionals are feeling the pressure to improve threat detection and response. These figures illustrate the growing demand for MDR services and why businesses are looking for reliable, trusted advisors to help protect their assets.
Managed Threat Detection and Response: An integrated solution
AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response (MDR) is a sophisticated managed detection and response service that helps you to detect and respond to advanced threats before they impact your business. It builds on our decades of expertise in managed security services, our award-winning unified security management (USM) platform for threat detection and response, and AT&T Alien LabsTM threat intelligence. With advanced features like 24x7 proactive security monitoring, security orchestration, and automation in one turnkey solution, you can quickly establish or scale your security program without the cost and complexity of building it yourself.
Alien Labs, the threat intelligence unit of AT&T Cybersecurity, produces timely threat intelligence that is integrated directly into the USM platform in the form of correlation rules and other higher-order detections to automate threat detection. AT&T Managed Threat Detection and esponse is fueled with continuously updated threat intelligence from AT&T Alien Labs, which has a unique vantage point into the AT&T IP backbone, global USM sensor network, Open Threat Exchange (OTX), and other threat data sources.

Features
 Continuous monitoring
 Integrate with other Security tools
 Built on unified security management
 AT&T Alien Labs Threat Intelligence
 Faster time to detect and respond
 Personalized onboarding workshop
 Orchestration and Automation
 Incident Response
 Built in correlation rules

With AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response, your critical IT assets are being monitored 24x7 by an advanced security operations center (SOC), freeing up your existing resources and allowing them to focus on more strategic initiatives. At the same time, we manage triaging and tier 1 and tier 2 support. AT&T has decades of experience in delivering managed security services to some of the world's largest and most high-profile companies. Built on that legacy, the AT&T Managed Threat Detection and Response SOC has a dedicated team of security analysts who are focused on helping you to protect your business by identifying and disrupting advanced threats around the clock.

As one of the largest MSSPs in the world, AT&T offers comprehensive MDR services through our world-class Security Operations Center (SOC) and the connection to the AT&T Chief Security Office (CSO) and the AT&T Global Network Operations Center (GNOC). These resources help to enable communication and collaboration and provide research, situational awareness and insight into cybersecurity threat activities on the Internet.

About AT&T Cybersecurity

AT&T Cybersecurity's Edge-to-EdgeTM technologies provide phenomenal threat intelligence, collaborative defense, security without the seams, and solutions that fit your business. Our unique, collaborative approach integrates best-of-breed technologies with unrivaled network visibility and actionable threat intelligence from AT&T Alien Labs researchers, Security Operations Center analysts, and machine learning--helping to enable our customers around the globe to anticipate and act on threats to protect their business.

For more information, contact an AT&T Representative to request a quote or visit our Managed Threat Detection and Response page

 2020 AT&T Intellectual Property. AT&T, Globe logo, and DIRECTV are registered trademarks and service marks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. The information contained herein is not an offer, commitment, representation or warranty by AT&T and is subject to change. | 17683-052720

2

SOLUTIONS BRIEF

