Get Real-Time, Actionable Insights on Your Cyber & IT Risk Landscape

Implement an intelligent, end-to-end IT and cyber risk management program to swiftly prevent and mitigate risk across your organization, using IT Risk Management, powered by HighBond.
Cyberattacks are growing exponentially in frequency and sophistication, with breaches of 1 to 10 million records costing an average of $50 million. The siloed nature of organizations' wide array of IT assets and applications often results in lack of real-time visibility into threats and vulnerabilities, increasing their exposure to risk.

Deploy an Integrated and Strategic Cyber Risk and It Risk Management Program
Proactively prevent, identify, and remediate risk across your organization's IT and information assets, delivering instant visibility into your threat landscape. Protect your organization by making revenue-driven decisions informed by advanced analytics.
Enable all teams to work centrally in real time across a single system, with unified data and streamlined collaboration to inform executive decision-making. Save time and identify security threats faster with automated workflows for critical IT risk and compliance workflows.
Deploy pre-configured content in a few clicks to help you manage an inventory of risks and controls, with automated, end-to-end cybersecurity risk scoring and seamless integration with threats and vulnerabilities feeds.

How the Diligent IT Risk Management Solution Does Risk Differently
Most organizations struggle to build strategic alignment around their cyber risk and IT risk landscape because each department has different goals and priorities. IT Risk Management brings all your data together in one place, to drive consistency and visibility across the entire organization, and to facilitate better collaboration and access to real-time insights into risk.
Use IT Risk Management to:
· Collaborate seamlessly across teams to identify and assess your IT risk and compliance through a centralized dashboard
· Automate and manage your IT asset life cycle in a single platform
· Immediately identify key threats to prioritize risk mitigation work with near-real-time control monitoring assessment
· Demonstrate IT risk and security compliance faster with automated critical IT risk and compliance workflows
· Deliver visibility into IT risk and compliance with visualizations and executive dashboards for better data-driven decisions

Key Features
· Centralized, end-to-end IT risk and compliance management
· Unified platform for cross-team collaboration · IT risk and compliance workflow and process
automation with pre-configured content

· Integration with threats and vulnerabilities feeds · Advanced risk modeling for multiple use cases or
stakeholders · Ready-to-use visualizations and executive dashboards · Best-in-class support from industry practitioners

Out-of-the-Box Content for IT Risk Management Solution

· 1 Impact Report · Secure Controls Framework (SCF) with entity mapping · IT Risk and Compliance Toolkit · ITRM Categorization Questionnaire

· ITRM Overview and Operational Storyboards · HighBond Integration Robots (Salesforce, UNIX) · User Access Controls Testing Analysis Robot

SCHEDULE A DEMO

$3.58M
Difference in the average total cost of a data breach for organizations without security automation deployed vs. organizations with automation fully deployed (20% less in data breach costs)
25%
Less time to identify and contain a data breach for organizations with security automation software
74 Less days
In companies with fully deployed automation solutions, the life cycle of a breach was 234 days, compared to 308 days in companies with no security automation deployment days

About DiligentTM
Diligent created the modern governance movement. As the leading governance, risk and compliance (GRC) SaaS company, we serve 1 million users from over 25,000 customers around the globe. Our innovative platform gives leaders a connected view of governance, risk, compliance and ESG across their organization. Our world-changing idea is to empower leaders with the technology, insights and connections they need to drive greater impact and accountability ­to lead with purpose.
For more information or to request a demo, contact us today: Email: info@diligent.com | Call: +1 877 434 5443 | Visit: diligent.com
© 2022 Diligent Corporation. "Diligent" is a trademark of Diligent Corporation, registered in the US Patent and Trademark Office. "Diligent Boards" and the Diligent logo are trademarks of Diligent Corporation. All third-party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.

