SOLUTION OVERVIEW
Orca Security: The Cloud Security Innovation Leader

Why Orca?
100% Coverage of Your Cloud Estate Multiple Tools in a Single Platform Prioritize the 1% of Alerts that Matter Integrate Once Secure Forever
"Orca risk-prioritizes alerts in a way that's very actionable in terms of both the information that is provided and the level of security that is given. This is topnotch and pure magic"
Caleb Sima VP of Information Security, Databricks

Workload-Deep, Context-Aware, Agentless Security and Compliance for the Cloud
Orca Security offers a radical new, zero-touch approach to cloud security that provides 100% visibility and coverage while eliminating the cost, organizational friction, and performance hits associated with traditional solutions. The single, integrated platform detects security risks at every layer of the cloud estate for AWS, Azure, and GCP -- eliminating the need to deploy and maintain multiple tools such as cloud vulnerability management, workload protection, and security posture management solutions -- without sending a single packet over the network or running a single line of code in your environment.
Unlike legacy tools that operate in silos, Orca sees the big picture and prioritizes risks based on environmental and business context. This reduces the thousands of meaningless security alerts to provide you with only the critical few, avoiding alert fatigue and ensuring that your team is focused on what matters.
Because Orca is agentless, the platform deploys in minutes -- not weeks or months. With Orca, there are no gaps in coverage, no organizational friction, and no performance hits.
Enterprise-Ready, Multi-Cloud Security
Orca is an enterprise-scalable platform designed to secure large multi-cloud estates efficiently and with low-overhead. With over 16 out-of-the-box thirdparty partner integrations, including Slack, OpsGenie, Jira, and ServiceNow, Orca helps maximize your organization's productivity. The platform also offers powerful alert query and automation capabilities that include auto-ticketing support and impactful workflows to optimize collaboration and minimize friction between your security, DevOps, and remediation teams.

SOLUTION OVERVIEW
Orca Detects and Prioritizes the Following Risks
Vulnerabilities Misconfigurations Malware Misplaced Sensitive Data Lateral Movement Risk Authentication Risk
Trusted by Organizations Across the Globe

How Orca Transforms Cloud Security
SideScanningTM Technology
Orca leverages cloud configuration and workload data to build a fully contextualized asset inventory and perform a holistic security assessment of your entire cloud estate. Orca's patentpending SideScanningTM technology collects data, with read-only access, from the workloads' runtime block storage and retrieves cloud configuration metadata via APIs. This allows Orca to detect vulnerabilities, malware, misconfigurations, lateral movement risk, weak and leaked passwords, and unsecured PII -- all without any performance impact on your workloads.
Context-Aware Security
Orca's context engine combines the intelligence gathered from deep inside workloads including the workload's host configurations (e.g., running services, firewall configurations) and cloud configuration details (e.g., IAM roles, VPCs, security groups) to build a unified data model. This powerful approach enables Orca to build a visual map of your cloud estate, including interconnectivity between assets. This preemptive view of your cloud attack surface immediately surfaces the critical security issues and their root cause without overwhelming your security team with thousands of meaningless alerts.
Built-In Cloud Compliance
With its agentless approach and ability to replace multiple security tools, Orca allows teams to maintain continuous compliance with key mandates such as PCI-DSS, SOC 2, PSD2, GDPR, NIST-800, HIPAA, and more. Orca also supports a wide range of CIS control benchmarks including Apache CIS, AWS CIS, Azure CIS, Docker CIS, GCP CIS, Linux CIS, and Windows CIS. Orca's built-in compliance templates can be customized to meet specific needs.

Ready to try it out? Sign up for a demo at orca.security/demo
© Copyright Orca Security 2021. All trademarks, service marks, and trade names referenced in this material are the property of their respective owners.

