Understanding Adversary Tactics
We believe the human component is critical to any security program. Training is an essential part of perfecting the skills necessary to protect the enterprise. As most experts already know, buying tools and technical capabilities is not enough, even with the recent rapid advances in automation and machine learning technologies. The people behind those toolsets are what separates an average team from a highperformance capability. Our specialty is understanding the adversary, it is a component of everything SpecterOps does. Our Adversary Tactics training courses focus on giving you an in-depth look into how to attack, defend, and harden your environment against advanced threat actors.
Adversary Tactics Training Courses
RED TEAM OPERATIONS: Explore the foundation of red teaming and how to simulate advanced threat actors, providing defensive staff with visibility in how a thinking adversary would operate against them.
DETECTION: Learn how to proactively search your environment for advanced threat actors and close the gap from infection to detection. Learn cutting-edge techniques to collect and analyze host-based information and stop adversaries before they cause wide-scale damage.
TRADECRAFT ANALYSIS: Strengthen your ability to develop robust detection analytics or data-driven evasion decisions by honing your workflows to understand the inner workings of attack techniques and telemetry availability.
MAC TRADECRAFT: Bridge the gap in your offensive macOS tradecraft through a deep-dive into the latest macOS security enhancements as well as foundational security and attacker technique concepts that enable students to prepare for future control enhancements rather than simply training tooling available today.
VULNERABILITY RESEARCH FOR OPERATORS: Relying on publicly available and stock tooling to leverage weaknesses in enterprise Windows environments to execute effective red team operations is becoming increasingly difficult. Learn the methodologies and tools to find, triage, and utilize new or novel exploitable vulnerabilities on Windows systems in time-sensitive engagements.

Why SpecterOps Training?
OPERATIONALLY RELEVANT Learn from expert practitioners, who regularly use course concepts to help organizations build and exercise robust detection programs.
CONSISTENTLY UP TO DATE Our courses are regularly updated, keeping pace with cutting edge techniques, current best practices, and the ever-evolving security
threat landscape.
PRACTICAL APPROACHES Our courses are built to be directly useful in day-to-day operations, helping drive positive impacts in your organization's
security posture.
ENTERPRISE LAB ENVIRONMENT Learn by doing, with the majority of course time spent in technically complex labs simulating operational environments
and real-world challenges.

F O R M O R E I N F O R M ATI O N , PLE A S E VI S IT S PE CTE RO PS . I O

