Simplifying Information Security
Information security is complex, full-contact, and constantly evolving. The dynamic landscape further obscures an already difficult path to a more secure tomorrow. It helps to have a trusted partner to provide guidance along the way. SpecterOps is a boutique information security solutions company that specializes in building and strengthening security programs through long-term, embedded consulting. Using philosophies and methodologies forged through a history of experience rooted in the U.S. intelligence community, SpecterOps progresses organizations' security posture across the spectrum of offensive and defensive disciplines. Our team of highly skilled Specters are practiced in adversary simulation, detection engineering, and solving novel or emerging security solutions. No matter where your security program stands today or aspires to be tomorrow, SpecterOps is the partner to get you there.
Consulting Services
SECURITY PROGRAM EVALUATION AND IMPROVEMENT Evaluate the maturity of your security program and develop a roadmap to future capabilities or practices. Collaborate with us on implementing improvements with experts helping and guiding along the way. Ensure your security program is the best it can be.
ADVERSARY SIMULATION Test the people, processes, and technology of your security program by leveraging real-world attacker tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in a threat-replicative manner. Choose from a selection of focused-scope and broad assessment methodologies to strengthen your security posture or holistically test your organization.
TRAINING Learn information security topics directly from our security professionals. We offer a range of offensive and defensive training courses to build your team's skills and continue driving organizational improvements. We also offer custom training services for your more specific training needs.
SpecterOps recognizes that long-term planning is considered a luxury for some organizations. For those organizations focused on solving a pressing short-term concern, SpecterOps provides independent assessment services. We're practiced in collaborating with organizations to overcome the problems of today, whether that's the need to improve specific detection capabilities, the need to simulate a sophisticated attacker, or something in-between.

Tenets of SpecterOps Consulting Services
Philosophy
E D U CAT I O N
Improvement is built on a foundation of learning. We live our commitment to education through extensive training offerings, building training into its collaborative services, and through near-constant publication
of new security research.
CONSISTENT IMPROVEMENT
Security isn't a destination state, it's a cyclical journey towards betterment. We think security findings should initiate solutions that in turn lead to newer findings -- a cycle whose collaborative execution strengthens and matures the
team and organization.
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE
To understand a solution one must first truly understand the underlying problem. We believe defensive research and considerations should be made for each offensive problem, and vice-versa. Specters live this practice in the research and tooling we publish as well as in the services
we provide.

F O R M O R E I N F O R M ATI O N , PLE A S E VI S IT S PE CTE RO PS . I O

