Know more. Respond sooner. Mitigate risk.
Stamus Networks believes in a world where defenders are heroes, and a future where those they protect remain safe. As defenders face an onslaught of threats from well-funded adversaries, we relentlessly pursue solutions that make the defender's job easier and more impactful.
A global provider of high-performance network-based threat detection and response systems, Stamus Networks helps enterprise security teams accelerate their response to threats with solutions that uncover serious and imminent risk from cloud and on-premise network activity. Our solutions are advanced network detection and response (NDR) systems that expose threats to critical assets and empower your rapid response.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES

Deliver the most useful detection, period

Celebrate the defenders

Avoid hype, fear and exaggeration

Embrace open interfaces and open source

Apply the right technology to the right problems

Show respect and integrity in everything we do

WHY NETWORK DETECTION AND RESPONSE

The network does not lie. In fact, the network holds the ground truth for an enterprise's security posture. Even as more organizations shift to cloud-based resources, encrypted transmission, and remote workforces, nearly all cyber threats generate communications that can be observed on the network.

At Stamus Networks, we tap into the inherent power of network traffic to uncover every possible threat to your organization. We offer the best possible asset-oriented visibility and automated detection to help practitioners cut through the clutter and focus on only those serious and imminent threats.

STAMUS Network Detection (ND)
Stamus ND is a Suricata-based intrusion detection (IDS) and network security monitoring (NSM) system that delivers:
§ Correlated IDS (signature-based) and NSM (protocol transaction
logs) data
§ Open interfaces for SIEM § Native Splunk app § Support for third-party signatures and threat intel § Tagging & classification for automated alert triage § Integrated guided threat hunting
STAMUS Network Detection and Response (NDR)
Stamus NDR builds on Stamus ND to create a broad-spectrum and open network detection and response (NDR) system that delivers:
§ Response-ready and high-fidelity threat detection from
machine learning, stateful logic, and signatures
§ Open interfaces for SOAR, SIEM, XDR, IR § Support for third-party and custom threat intelligence § Explainable and transparent results with evidence § Integrated guided threat hunting
WHAT MAKES STAMUS NETWORKS DIFFERENT?
Broad-Spectrum Detection - Automated broad-spectrum detection from machine learning, rules, threat intelligence, and stateful logic. Logs everything, alerts only on declarations of compromise.
Open Interfaces & Explainable Results - Open interfaces for SOAR, SIEM, XDR & third-party threat intel. Transparent and explainable results backed by extensive evidence..
Built-in Guided Threat Hunting - Guided threat hunting interface with advanced pivoting on enriched data, event tagging and knowledge transfer workflow.
Asset-Oriented Attack Insights - High-fidelity insights into attacks on your hosts and user accounts mapped to stages on the kill chain.
It Just Works - Easy to install, integrate, configure, and operate. It just works - all the time.

ABOUT STAMUS NETWORKS
Stamus Networks believes in a world where defenders are heroes, and a future where those they protect remain safe. As defenders face an onslaught of threats from wellfunded adversaries, we relentlessly pursue solutions that make the defender's job easier and more impactful. A global provider of high-performance network-based threat detection and response systems, Stamus Networks helps enterprise security teams accelerate their response to critical threats with solutions that uncover serious and imminent risk from network activity. Our advanced network detection and response (NDR) solutions expose threats to critical assets and empower rapid response.

Copyright © 2021

CORP-OVR-092021-1

5 Avenue Ingres 450 E 96th St. Suite 500

75016 Paris

Indianapolis, IN 46240

France

United States

contact@stamus-networks.com www.stamus-networks.com

