CASE STUDY

Goldman Sachs: Accelerating business with microservices

Overview
For Goldman Sachs, speed of software innovation is critical. The ability to be competitive relies on a talented team with software applications that help deliver insights to clients. The engineering division at Goldman Sachs is on the front lines of ensuring the professionals at the firm have the tools necessary to advise customers as the global economy changes.
With this in mind, Goldman Sachs has adopted DevOps principles and microservices to deliver containerized applications at scale across on-premises and cloud environments. As a result of this transformation, Goldman Sachs has accelerated software delivery velocity from one build every two weeks to over a thousand per day. In the firm's adoption of microservices, GS invested in Sysdig to fuel the company's growth in offering host and container monitoring and security solutions.

Challenge
While speed is a key objective, Goldman Sachs cannot compromise compliance and security. As part of a highly regulated industry, the firm needs a way to ensure it monitors its containerized applications and data. Furthermore, as the business runs on software, performance, and availability are fundamental.
Benefits
Sysdig plays a key role in helping cloud teams at Goldman Sachs successfully monitor microservices at scale. With Sysdig, Goldman Sachs is able to:
 Optimize performance and availability of business-critical services
 Accelerate incident response and troubleshooting

Case Study Goldman Sachs

Cloud-native technology has enabled Goldman Sachs to significantly increase the efficiency of its DevOps teams. Using containers, the firm has accelerated software development, automated business continuity, and simplified infrastructure management. At the same time, security, and compliance processes have had to change to be effective. Goldman Sachs cannot run its business without the right tools to ensure visibility.
"With a highly dynamic environment that spans cloud providers and on-premises data centers, security, monitoring, and troubleshooting took on a whole new dimension," relates Chetan Mehendiratta, Vice President of Engineering at Goldman Sachs.
"Our charter is to optimize and secure the services running in our environment. We need, for instance, to understand communication patterns and cluster usage, to identify bad behavior and security events, and to know if an application is under- or over-utilized. To achieve these goals, we not only need detailed telemetry, but we need application context. This is a hard problem to solve."
Goldman Sachs engaged Sysdig in late 2016, embarking on a rigorous technology evaluation to determine a fit for the firm's unique set of requirements. Goldman Sachs found that Sysdig enabled
With Sysdig, Goldman Sachs is able to address dozens of use cases spanning monitoring, troubleshooting, scanning, compliance, threat detection and auditing, all at massive scale.

the necessary visibility needed while integrating security and compliance into the company's DevOps workflows. With Sysdig, the firm is able to address dozens of use cases spanning monitoring, troubleshooting, scanning, compliance, threat detection, and auditing, all at massive scale.
Goldman Sachs deploys Sysdig to monitor and secure their environment at scale and supports a population of more than 9,000 developers
Monitoring applications at massive scale
With a highly dynamic and massively scalable multicloud environment, the central monitoring team at Goldman Sachs uses Sysdig to auto-detect and monitor hosts, containers, and orchestrators. The team can easily identify applications and containers across on-premises and public clouds. The telemetry gathered spans application, infrastructure, and process-level activity at an unprecedented scale, polling millions of containers per second.
Armed with a rich set of data, Goldman Sachs is able to build custom service connection maps that identify containers and processes that belong to a particular application and detail which services communicate with other services. In addition, these maps are enriched with granular activity data that helps identify and troubleshoot issues across the stack.

2

Case Study Goldman Sachs

Identifying rogue connections and top talkers across clouds
With Sysdig, the monitoring team tracks millions of network connections between entities, data centers, regions, and clouds, and then attributes network usage to containers. Knowing which processes and containers are top talkers helps Goldman Sachs more effectively:
 Isolate applications using the most network data
 Identify rogue connections that could indicate a security violation
 Attribute container processes to network usage for better capacity planning
 Perform troubleshooting to maximize availability
MITRE ATT&CK detections for cloud-native environments
With Sysdig Secure, Goldman Sachs has access to security detection policies and complete visibility into process, file, network I/O, and user activity. Both out-of-the-box and customizable rules help Goldman Sachs detect common misbehaviors and potential indicators of compromise. In addition, the security team is able to take advantage of community-driven rules as well as the latest detections made available by the Sysdig threat research team.
Part of any good security strategy involves aligning the security team to a standard. The Goldman Security Incident Response Team (SIRT) used the MITRE ATT&CK framework to align detection

strategies and compare tools during their selection process. "Security is driven around best practices and we needed a way for our teams to efficiently apply MITRE ATT&CK practices that are integrated into our day-to-day security processes," explains Wes Williams, Global Head of Security Incident Response at Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs evaluated existing logging tools as well as open source solutions, including Falco, the open source cloud-native runtime security project originally created by Sysdig. After its evaluation, the SIRT concluded that logging could not sufficiently support the set of detections required.
Goldman found that Sysdig Secure, based on Falco, expanded the company's ability to detect incidents and use granular data with context to quickly respond.
Goldman found that Sysdig Secure, based on Falco, expanded the company's ability to detect incidents and use granular data with context to quickly respond. Robust detection that minimizes the noise of false positives improved the team's efficiency and confidence.

3

Case Study Goldman Sachs

Auditing & forensics records for ephemeral workloads
Data collected by Sysdig for audit and forensics is a critical enabler of Goldman's strategy. These data sources allow analysts to see user and system activity from the moment an event occurred. This includes executed user commands, every network connection established or attempted and the ability to drill down into any I/O activity, even if the host is no longer running. In the future, the SIRT plans on utilizing Sysdig Secure to monitor containers in addition to current host monitoring for compliance and security events.
"At our scale, it is important to have a complete record, even if the containers last only a few seconds," explains Williams. "And, we need to be able to capture this data at scale to conduct not only forensics investigations but also security audits."
The incident response team extracts immediate value through 30+ built-in detections provided

by Sysdig Secure. The Sysdig data ensures that Goldman Sachs has a complete record of activity and is able to reconstruct events at a granular level for audit purposes.
"At our scale, it is important to have a complete record, even if the containers last only a few seconds. We need to be able to capture this data at scale to conduct not only forensics investigations but also security audits."
- Wes Williams, Global Head of Security Incident Response at Goldman Sachs

Sysdig is becoming an integral part of the Goldman Sachs Linux, container and cloud environment, helping the firm to continue
to speed innovation and maintain its competitive edge. Learn more at www.sysdig.com
4
Copyright  2020. Sysdig. All rights reserved. CS-GOLDMANSACHS Rev. A 5/20

