INTEGRATION BRIEF
Tanium + Phosphorus Enterprise
Extend your visibility to the boundless web of the Internet of Things. The accuracy of the Tanium Platform now includes embedded devices that were previously unknown, illuminating IoT objects in shadow IT.

Illuminating Shadow IoT
As the number of connected devices grows exponentially, so do the hidden challenges of managing them. To secure the enterprise, IT teams need complete visibility into and control over all embedded devices, even those deployed as part of shadow IT.
Many of these devices can't be managed by software agents.
Lack of visibility into these `unmanaged' and uncontrolled devices creates massive security and operational threats for any organization.
The Phosphorus Enterprise integration for Tanium helps organizations discover and monitor these devices, so they can identify risks and remediate them.

Asset Detection and Control
The integration of Phosphorus Enterprise with Tanium Asset gives organizations high-fidelity visibility into the realm of IoT. It does so by discovering and classifying embedded devices while creating a single database of all IoT devices and their associated risks.
The result is a unified view of all IoT devices in the Tanium Asset console. Through this integration, security teams can accurately identify the highest priority issues for IoT devices, predict potential risks and their severity, and generate detailed, comprehensive reports in real time.
The integration reduces IT workloads for basic endpoint security. This reduction frees IT engineers to focus on monitoring and remediating risks, managing credentials, and patching IoT devices -- an essential practice for reducing IoT risk.

Key Benefits
The Phosphorus Enterprise integration for Tanium gives organizations deep, actionable visibility into an ecosystem of devices. The Tanium Platform provides unmatched speed and remediation capabilities in patching and enforcing password compliance.

See a comprehensive view of all IoT devices from the Phosphorus Enterprise and Tanium Asset consoles.
Push a rich set of IoT device information to the Tanium Asset module.

Identify the highest priority threats and generate summaries from a single window.
Predict potential risks and generate detailed reports in real time.

2021 Tanium. All rights reserved.

1

How It Works: Tanium + Phosphorus Integration
The Phosphorus Enterprise integration for Tanium establishes a continuous data flow between Phosphorus Enterprise and Tanium Asset consoles. With the integration, Tanium Asset consoles can access a high-fidelity database of embedded device information alongside the traditional endpoints visible in Tanium Asset.

Endpoint Visibility

Extensive node information for IoT devices:

- Manufacturer and model - Vulnerabilities - Firmware details - Credential management - Serial Number

IoT Visibility and Control

IT Management
 Achieve visibility of all IoT devices, including information about credentials status, software updates and patches.
 Deliver extensive node information to Tanium Asset, including name, model number, type, serial number and firmware version.
 Use real-time data to enrich configuration management databases (CMDB) and enforce security policies.
Security and Risk
 Reveal comprehensive risk information, default or out-of-compliance credentials, missing security patches, and current CVEs.
 Identify shadow IoT devices and mitigate the IoT insider threat.
 Continuously monitor embedded systems for operational risks, insider threats and physical attacks.

Tanium offers an endpoint management and security platform built for the world's most demanding IT environments. Many of the world's largest and most sophisticated organizations -- including nearly half of the Fortune 100, top retailers and financial institutions, and multiple branches of the U.S. Armed Forces -- rely on Tanium to make confident decisions, operate efficiently, and remain resilient against disruption. Visit us at www.tanium.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter.

2021 Tanium. All rights reserved.

2

