THE HISTORY OF HUMAN LAYER SECURITY

Networks,

1

Devices,

People.

How Human Layer Security Became The New Paradigm of Cybersecurity
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Table of Contents

004 Introduction

2

005 Cybersecurity Has Been About Securing The Machine Layer

007 People Now Have Digital Superpowers

010 Enterprises Are Failing To Solve "The People Problem"

015 Security Should Remove Obstacles, Not Present Barriers

018 Enter Tessian. Enter Human Layer Security.

023 Mission Critical Technology

025 What's next for Human Layer Security?

December 2021

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Introduction

A few years ago, Human Layer Security was a new idea invented by

3

the visionary founding team at Tessian. We came from finance, an

industry that acutely feels the impact of data breaches caused by

human error. We saw the damage happening around us. We saw how

security measures weren't working. And we felt the pain of working

around inflexible rules and sitting through endless training. We were

certain there had to be a better way to secure people. A way that

would finally treat people not as devices, but as humans.

Flash forward to 2021 and Human Layer Security is a rapidly growing category in the cybersecurity space, recognized by many as the biggest opportunity to secure data, improve employee security awareness, and stop the breaches crippling companies today. The so-called "people problem" in security is now so big, the entire RSA 2020 conference was dedicated to the topic.

So, what is Human Layer Security, and why did we create this new category?

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

CYBERSECURITY HAS BEEN
4
ABOUT SECURING THE MACHINE LAYER
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Cybersecurity Has Been About Securing The Machine Layer

The firewall was a simple solution built in the 1980s to protect 5 computers from viruses. By building a perimeter around an organization's network and giving that perimeter rules about who and what can come in and out, malicious attacks, like viruses, could easily be kept out. Firewalls worked because an organization's network functioned like an island.
Company-owned desktops communicated to company-owned servers on a companyowned intranet. Employees would use the network for short times to do discrete tasks, generally with limited amounts of data. This worked...in the 1980s and 1990s.
With the proliferation of mobile devices and cloud-based services, the enterprise perimeter became more dynamic and complex. Endpoint security solutions emerged to help businesses secure the many devices used by their employees. And Cloud Access Security Brokers came to light so that businesses could extend their security policies beyond their own networks to the cloud services they depend on.
But despite these new protections, breaches continued.

GENERIC FIREWALL SOLUTIONS

Users

Firewall

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Internet

PEOPLE

NOW HAVE

6
DIGITAL

SUPERPOWERS

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

People Now Have Digital Superpowers

Today, 85% of data breaches are caused by people (Verizon

DBIR 2021). And it's the result of decades of technological

transformation, which has given people superpowers at

their fingertips. People can wire millions of dollars in a few

clicks. People can share an entire customer database in a

7

single excel file on an email.

Employees have become the gatekeepers to the most sensitive systems and data in the enterprise. This is because the way businesses use and rely on technology has shifted in dramatic ways.

SHIFT 01
More Sensitive & Expensive Data Than Ever
Over the past 40 years, the volume of data created and stored globally has doubled every two years. By 2025, enterprises are expected to store 60% of this data. The nature of this data is increasingly sensitive because businesses aren't just storing data about their own operations. They're storing data about their suppliers, customers, employees, candidates, and even patients. This makes enterprise data a more lucrative target than ever, because with a single breach, an attacker can seize data not just about one company, but about entire supply chains and customer bases.

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

SHIFT 02
More Connected And Productive Than Ever

Businesses have invested heavily in tools and services that enable

their employees to get work done without being confined to the company network.

8

Mobile devices enable them to work remotely, whether that's at home, on the road,

or in a customer's office. And cloud-based services like Atlassian, Salesforce and

AWS make it easier for them to access, organize and make sense of data--from

anywhere, at any hour, seamlessly.

While these two shifts have enabled numerous opportunities for businesses to get more done, they've also created new security challenges, driving the invention of new technologies to secure these new networks.

Networks

Endpoints

Nevertheless, security risks persist and breaches are at an all-time high.
Here's why: people are in the driver's seat, and they lack sufficient assistive and protective technology to keep them secure. Every single day, people make 35,000 decisions. From sending an email, to sharing a file, to processing an invoice, human error on any one of these decisions can lead to catastrophic security breaches.

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

ENTERPRISES ARE FAILING
9
TO SOLVE "THE PEOPLE
PROBLEM"
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Enterprises Are Failing To Solve "The People Problem"

Security spending is higher than ever. CISO's are savvier than ever. Security technology is more advanced than ever. And so company infrastructures are better secured than ever. But still, breaches are on the rise.
10

"If your security measures aren't working for the people, then they're not working at all."
Simon Hodgkinson
EX-CISO, BP

NUMBER OF DATA BREACHES EACH YEAR AND MILLIONS OF RECORDS EXPOSED IN THE U.S.

2000 1500

DATA BREACHES MILLIONS OF RECORDS EXPOSED

1632 1473
1257

1000

656

662

498

500

446

321

157

222.5

127.7

0

66.9 19.1

35.7

16.2

1093 1001

783 781 614 419 447

471.23

169.07

197.61

91.98 85.61 36.6
22.9 17.3

164.68 155.8

2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

The problem is that the two big shifts we mentioned above haven't just introduced additional vulnerabilities in existing networks. They've introduced an entirely new attack surface: people. The people who control the myriad devices and cloud services that have access to the rapidly swelling volume of sensitive data. People who are busy, distracted, and sometimes even ill-intentioned.
11
This new kind of breach might be as simple as an employee accidentally sending sensitive documents to the wrong email address (also known as a misdirected email). An attacker impersonating a coworker to extract valuable data. Or a disgruntled employee deliberately leaking information. These kinds of attacks have become common enough to cost businesses billions of dollars every year.
"Misdirected emails are a major cybersecurity problem that all organizations have to deal with, but trying to train human error out of employees is near impossible."
Chris White
GLOBAL CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER, CLYDE & CO

$3.92m 85%

Of breaches include a human element.
Verizon DBIR 2021

The average cost of a breach for a business.
IBM

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Securing People Looks Much Different Than Securing Endpoints
Historically, cybersecurity has mostly involved building and enforcing rules. When a new threat arises, new rules are needed. This works well when the rules are applied
12
to devices. Businesses know what a device will do, know that all its devices will work about the same way, and can be fairly certain all the devices will remember the rules and execute them consistently.
But people aren't devices. They're entirely unique. Often unpredictable. And they tend to forget or break rules. Yet the security measures built to secure people have mostly looked like the measures built to secure devices.
No matter how many rules a business tries to write, they'll never be able to cover every edge case. Why? Rules vary on a nearly endless array of factors, from an employee's seniority to their role to what project they happen to be working on that week.

LEGACY APPROACHES VS. HUMAN LAYER SECURITY (HLS)

HIGH

EFFECTIVENESS

REMOVAL

TRAINING
RULE BASED TECHNOLOGY

POLICIES

HIGH

PRODUCTIVITY IMPACT

LOW

REMOVAL Remove employee access to systems or data, but now they can no longer do their job. HLS
POLICIES Remind employees of data sharing policies, but compliance is difficult to enforce and track.
TRAINING Administer security awareness or phishing simulation training, but it's impossible to train away human error.
RULE BASED TECHNOLOGY Build rules to block emails to freemail domains. This prevents employees from emailing some colleagues, yet allows outbound emails to still be sent to non-freemail personal accounts.
LOW

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

"You can't have one rule for all use cases or just block by default. Tessian allows us to take a more nuanced approach and leverage different controls for different departments. By addressing specific risks, for specific
13
teams, we can manage risk better. "
Elsa Ferreira
CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER, EVERCORE
Security Awareness Training As We Know It Is Broken
Training can help fill in some of these gaps by proactively educating employees to spot attacks and avoid mistakes. But in most cases, security training is broken. It's a perfunctory, one-size-fits all exercise that wastes hours of an employee's time and millions of dollars of a business' budget. What's more, expecting people to remember a training they took last quarter as they go through their daily tasks is simply unrealistic. Rules and training are unpleasant for employees. They make people feel bored, untrusted, and scared. These measures also impede employees' productivity; rely on them doing the right thing 100% of the time; and often remove access to the data and systems that gave them superpowers in the first place.
"There are three fundamental problems with any awareness campaign. First, it's often irrelevant to the user. The second, that training is often boring. The third, it takes a big chunk of money out of the business."
Mark Lodgson
HEAD OF CYBER ASSURANCE AND OVERSIGHT, PRUDENTIAL
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

SECURITY SHOULD REMOVE
14
OBSTACLES, NOT PRESENT
BARRIERS
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Security Should Remove Obstacles, Not Present Barriers

"When my oldest daughter was learning how to walk, we stayed in a small apartment. As she was learning to walk, she would stumble 15 and fall. My responsibility as her father was to keep her safe, to keep her secure. But she would stumble and fall. And I recognized that it was part of walking. She needed to learn how to fall and pick herself back up. So what I did was go around her and remove everything that was dangerous around her without her even being aware of it.
As employers and security professionals, we have to take the same approach: that we have to create a secure working environment without our employees even knowing it."
Bobby Ford
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT/CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER, HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

We believe the job of security technology and teams is to take the obstacles out the way -- not to try and make people security experts or add more to their cognitive load.
To find a better solution, we started by imagining a business' employees not as end
16
points, but as a distinct layer of the technology stack. As we tried to understand this layer, we found it had three defining characteristics:
01 The Human Layer Is Open By Default.
It's easy to secure a computer network by making it closed by default. But employees need to access the outside world. In most cases, the core functions of their jobs are communicating with people outside their organizations. If you make the human layer closed by default, it will be nearly impossible for your employees to do their jobs. But if you leave it open, you're playing constant catch-up, trying to write rules to flag and block potential threats from the outside world.
02 People Make Mistakes, Break The Rules And Get Hacked.
Computers act predictably. They don't get tired. They don't misread messages. They don't forget the rules. And they never intentionally break them. Not so with humans. This unpredictability opens up vulnerabilities never seen in computer networks.
03 The Human Layer Is Dynamic.
Computers act predictably. They don't get tired. They don't misread messages. They don't forget the rules. And they never intentionally break them. Not so with humans. This unpredictability opens up vulnerabilities never seen in computer networks.
Looking at these characteristics, it became obvious that legacy, rule-driven security couldn't both secure the human layer and still allow humans to do their jobs.
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

ENTER TESSIAN.
17
ENTER HUMAN LAYER
SECURITY
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Enter Tessian. Enter Human Layer Security.

Human Layer Security (HLS) automatically detects and

prevents threats by understanding human communication

patterns and behavior, building a unique security identity for

each and every employee, and continuously improving their

security reflexes over time.

18

Human Layer Security works like this:

STEP 1

Heuristic Models

Machine Learning Models

Platform ingests historical email data to understand normal content, context, and communication patterns for every single employee in your organization. Behavioural Intelligence Models are built and relationship graphs are established; they are continuously updated as email behavior changes over time after Tessian is deployed.

STEP 2

No Historical Relationship New Salutation for "Kevin"

Project Tornado Documents
John Durant
<john.durant@company.com>
Kevin Smith <kevin.smith@external.com>
Hi Kevin, I have attached all the financials for Project Tornado. Price is still in negociation, so please keep this confidential. Regards, John

Sensitive Project Title
Project Tornado Keyword "Confidential"

Document Misattached

LEGAL-ACQUISITION.DOC

Platform analyzes all inbound and outbound emails in real-time and uses machine

intelligence to automatically detect if emails contain security threats based on the

Tessian Data Layer, Content X-Ray and Behavioural Analytics insights.

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

STEP 3

Project Tornado Documents

John Durant
Is this the<jochno.durrranet@ccotmapatnyt.caomc>hment?

legal-acqKeuviisnitSimonit.hd<okcevin.smith@company.com>

You don't normally send attachments referencing `acme-corp' to these

recipients. Based on your previous emails, this attachment looks unusual.

19

Hi Kevin, Would you still like to send this email?

I have attached all the financials for Project Tornado.

Price is still in negociation, so please keep this confidential.

Regards, John

LEGAL-ACQUISITION.DOC

As security threats are detected, employees are alerted in real-time with clear, contextual explanations. This in-the-moment training continuously educates them about threats, reinforces policies, and nudges them toward safe behavior over time.

"Traditional DLP has a low return on investment, and it's expensive to run. It does stop some malicious emails, but it's very low volume. On the other end of the spectrum, you have Tessian. If you look at Guardian, for example, it's stopping data loss every day. Now, misdirected emails aren't malicious activity, but the consequences are no less severe and the ROI is clear and easy to calculate. All we have to do is look at the number of employees who were going to do something - like send an email to the wrong person, move sensitive data outside of the company - but didn't because of the solution."
Rob Hyde
CISO, SCHRODERS

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Under The Hood of HLS

We knew the first technology to truly secure the human layer would be the first

technology to truly understand the human layer. To recognize patterns inside of

large, complex data sets, machine learning seemed like a natural choice. But a

single machine learning model couldn't work for every employee at every company.

20

We needed to build a union of technologies that could adapt quickly, remember,

and learn.

TESSIAN DATA LAYER

Samantha Walsh
ACME COMPANY IP 1.160.10.240

Kevin Brown
XYZ SUPPLIERS IP 1.172.16.254

SENT VOLUME RECEIVED VOLUME RECIPROCITY RELATIONSHIP AGE TOPICS SALUTATION

To better understand the unique relationships in any business, we developed a stateful machine learning model that initially trains on all an organization's historical email data, and then augments itself in real-time. The result is a unique model that's always up-to-date with the latest relationship history, making it easier to spot suspicious or anomalous actions.

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

CONTENT X-RAY

No Historical Relationship

Project Tornado Documents
21
John Durant
<john.durant@company.com>
Kevin Smith <kevin.smith@external.com>

New Salutation for "Kevin"

Hi Kevin,

I have attached all the financials for Project To Price is still in negociation, so please keep this

To inspect each message, we developed deep coRnetegnatrdinss,pection tools that use natural language processing to determine the meaning oJfoahmnessage far beyond keywords. This
helps to spot unique and emerging threats, like a spear phishing attack.

Document Misattached

LEGAL-ACQUISITION.DOC

BEHAVIORAL ANALYSIS

With relationship history determined by the Tessian Data Layer and message content and context determined by Content X-Ray, we can create a unique profile of every employee in an organization, understand their normal behavior and spot attacks that deviate from it.
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

MISSION CRITICAL
22
TECHNOLOGY
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Mission Critical Technology

Securing the human layer is a unique approach that offers unique benefits. As

we've developed and implemented these technologies, we've seen that they go

beyond protecting a business' data, to empowering their people too. Previous

attempts to secure people treated them like liabilities. But securing the human

layer transforms these people into assets. Every time a threat is flagged, an

employee is essentially getting custom-tailored, in-the-moment security training.

23

They're shown what's wrong and given the power to take action, making them more

likely to spot threats and avoid mistakes in the future.

"We have people working against deadlines; they're under stress. We can't possibly ask them to triple-check every email before sending in order to make sure confidential information doesn't end up in the wrong hands. These mistakes are imminent. Tessian gives them a certain level of comfort - which makes them more efficient - all while preventing data loss and changing behavior."
Katerina Sibinovska
CISO, INTERTRUST GROUP

In the same way every organization has a firewall and an EDR platform, Human Layer Security is the missing piece of the puzzle, and now the mission critical pillar of the security tech stack. By preventing breaches and empowering employees to do their best work, Human Layer Security enables every business to achieve its mission.
"99% of people will make the right security decision when they have the right information. Tessian offers that information in-the-moment to that 99%, and gives us visibility of the 1% of people who might be doing things maliciously."
Tim Fitzgerald
CISO, ARM

NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

WHAT'S NEXT
24
FOR HUMAN LAYER
SECURITY?
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

What's Next for Human Layer Security?

Human Layer Security has made vulnerable inboxes markedly safer, but the human layer is far from secure. Businesses rely on tools like messaging apps and collaboration software that make work easier for employees but also open new vectors for attack.

The good news is that stateful machine learning models like the

ones we've developed are always getting smarter. With each threat

25

stopped, they better understand a business' relationships and each

employee's behavior. That understanding can easily be transferred

to many domains beyond email.

EMAIL

WEB

INSTANT MESSAGING

DATA MANIPULATION

FILE SYSTEMS

MANY MORE

Of course, securing the human layer isn't something one company can do alone. We're passionate about building a community dedicated to protecting businesses and empowering people. We've been excited to see the response to our Human Layer Security Summit and our podcast. And we've been thrilled to see so many new companies enter the space, innovate their own tools, and transform an idea we had a few years ago into a new category that promises to redefine cybersecurity.
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

Learn More About How

Tessian Prevents Human

Error on Email.

26

Tessian's mission is to secure the human layer by empowering people to do their best work, without security getting in their way.

LOOKING FOR MORE RESOURCES?

TESSIAN RESEARCH
The Pyschology of Human Error
LEARN MORE 

TESSIAN RESEARCH
Spear Phishing Threat Landscape 2021

TESSIAN BLOG
Must-Know Phishing Statistics 2021

LEARN MORE 

LEARN MORE 

See Tessian in Action.
Automatically stop data breaches and security threats caused by employees on email.

REQUEST A DEMO 

Tessian's mission is to secure the human layer. Using machine learning technology, Tessian automatically stops data breaches and security threats caused by human error - like data exfiltration, accidental data loss, business email compromise and phishing attacks - with minimal disruption to employees' workflow. As a result, employees are empowered to do their best work, without security getting in their way. Founded in 2013, Tessian is backed by renowned investors like March Capital, Sequoia, Accel, and Balderton.
NETWORKS  DEVICES  PEOPLE

