CASE STUDY

CASE STUDY

ThreatX Gives SELCO Community Credit Union's IT Team the Watchdog It Was Looking For

About SELCO Community Credit Union
Located in Springfield, Oregon, SELCO is one of Oregon's largest and longstanding credit unions. It is a member-owned, not-for-profit financial cooperative offering a full range of banking and financial services, including personal and business banking, personal and commercial lending, financial planning and investment services, and a range of insurance products for individuals and businesses. With a current asset size of $2.5 billion, SELCO has 143,000 members and 14 branches serving 27 Oregon counties.
The Challenge
Since the start of the pandemic, every financial institution has seen an uptick in attempted cyberattacks -- from brute force to DDoS to credential stuffing. As part of its proactive and aggressive commitment to data security, SELCO Community Credit Union enlisted the services of ThreatX to ensure that if a threat were ever to present itself, SELCO's members and their information would remain secure. "We were looking for outside expertise and a way to continue delivering best-in-class services without downtime, and without risk," said Steve Liu, SELCO's Director of Information Technology.
Juggling Excel spreadsheets
The SELCO IT team was working nights and weekends due to the manual and time-consuming process of responding to possible suspicious behavior using its previous security solution.

AT A GLANCE
Customer: SELCO Community Credit Union
Industry: Financial services
Challenge Continue delivering best-in-class member services without downtime, and without risk
Solution ThreatX Web Application and API Protection platform
Results » ThreatX allows the SELCO IT
team to protect member data without spending excessive time manually creating and managing rules.
» With ThreatX's attacker-based analysis, SELCO blocks suspicious activity without affecting legitimate traffic.
» SELCO was up and running on the ThreatX platform within an hour, and seeing results just as quickly.

ThreatX has been a game changer for my team and me, and has provided an additional layer of security for our members."
-Steve Liu, SELCO Community Credit Union Director of IT

If the team identified unusual user behavior that could potentially be malicious, they'd pull IP addresses out of the suspected database queries, put them into Excel spreadsheets, remove any duplicates, and then correlate the IP addresses with other information. For instance, multiple logins with different usernames from the same IP address would be something to block. Ultimately, they would need to create rules for each identified IP address in their security solution. Unfortunately, even this detailed and time-consuming process couldn't account for ISPs that mask their customer IPs behind a single IP.
As a small and specialized team, we don't have the ability to just watch out for potential threats or suspicious activity."
-Steve Liu, SELCO Community Credit Union Director of IT
The Solution
In its quest to provide services to their members without downtime or risk, SELCO investigated several web application firewall (WAF) vendors and bot management services. As part of that investigation, they reached out to their ISP, Lumen, for recommendations. The Lumen team introduced SELCO to ThreatX, a Lumen partner.
In one of the very first calls between SELCO and ThreatX, the ThreatX team proposed deploying their Web Application and API Protection (WAAP) solution right then and there to give SELCO a taste of what it could do. Within an hour, SELCO was up and running on the ThreatX platform. "It was pretty incredible," Liu remembered. "That spoke volumes to us about the responsiveness, the ease of integration, and just how quickly we could get it done."
After evaluating other solutions, SELCO determined they couldn't match the level of preventative measures and efficiency they had found with ThreatX. By that point, the SELCO team had developed great working relationships with the ThreatX SOC team that would have been hard to walk away from. "We had an amazing relationship with the ThreatX SOC. Individuals in the SOC would contact us, reach out to us. They felt like an extension of our team," said Liu.
"We quickly realized that ThreatX was the solution for us. Not just because of what the product could do and its fit for our systems, but also the dynamic, working relationship we had between my network team, myself, and key people of the ThreatX SOC."
This is one of the best working relationships we have in the technology arena."
-Steve Liu, SELCO Community Credit Union Director of IT
CASE STUDY | SELCO

The Benefits

Restored Balance on Team "ThreatX has been a game changer for my team and me," Liu said, "and has provided an additional layer of security for our members. We were all taking turns working evenings and weekends, and the need for that stopped."
Liu said that, early on, his team had to unlearn some of its ingrained methods of dealing with suspicious behavior and just let the ThreatX system do its thing. With ThreatX's behavior-based, rather than signature-based, analysis, it was actively identifying and blocking suspicious users without the need to manually create rules.
Liu said that his team has its balance back. "We don't have to be watching it all the time. It doesn't occur to me to check it over the weekend. As a small and specialized team, we don't have the ability to just watch out for potential threats or suspicious activity."

Keeping Member Services Up and Running ThreatX monitors and tracks user behavior, looking for suspicious patterns over time rather than simply identifying attack signatures, such as suspect IP addresses. For this reason, the results are much more accurate than those generated by a legacy WAF -- and much less likely to block legitimate traffic.
Fast Time to Value With ThreatX's agentless deployment, SELCO was up and running on the platform within an hour, and seeing results just as quickly. In addition, ThreatX consolidates data on multiple attack types -- including traditional OWASP attacks, bots and malicious automation, DDoS mitigation, and API-specific threats. SELCO has a clear picture of their risk quickly, without spending time chasing down results from multiple solutions.

Realizing What's Possible Working with ThreatX creates future opportunities as well. Liu noted, "It wasn't the typical vendor assertion of, this is what we do, take it or leave it. The ThreatX team is always willing to work with us and listen to our ideas to improve the product and the experience for other credit unions. In fact, we've seen that come to fruition in dashboard improvements that originated with us. We really feel like our voice is being heard."

ABOUT THREATX
ThreatX's web application and API protection (WAAP) platform makes the world safer by protecting web applications and APIs from all threats, including DDoS attempts, BOT attacks, API abuse, exploitations of known vulnerabilities, and zero-day attacks. Its multi-layered detection capabilities accurately identify malicious actors and dynamically initiate appropriate action. ThreatX effectively and efficiently protects web applications and APIs for companies in every industry across the globe.

To learn more

REGISTER FOR A DEMO
www.threatx.com/request-a-demo

© 2021 ThreatX, Inc

www.threatx.com | info@threatx.com | +1 888.303.5580

