The Top 5 Cloud Security Risks:

Widespread digital transformation means increased cloud security risk. Learn how human intelligence--hacker-powered security--can help your organization defend against new attack vectors, mitigate risk, and improve cloud security.

1

430% 
IN THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE ATTACKS

2

3

4

5

Software Supply Chain Attacks Are on the Rise
Software supply chain attacks present a cloud risk. A 2020 Sonatype Report showed a 430% increase in third-party software attacks. As cybercriminals adapt to new attack surfaces, they will exploit these software supply chain weaknesses.

56% PERFORM SUPPLEMENTAL PENTESTS
Proving Compliance
Compliance is about more than checking a box. While cloud providers maintain basic compliance and security standards, you're responsible for overall cloud security. A 2021 SANS Survey reports that 56% of respondents perform penetration tests to supplement current compliance practices.

84% SAW API MANIPULATION ATTACKS
Unsecured APIs
APIs are fundamental to digital transformation and cloud applications. But unsecured APIs leave organizations open to attack. A Radware 2020-2021 Report found that 84% of organizations saw API manipulation attacks against web servers or applications.

43% OF BREACHES INVOLVED WEB APPLICATIONS
Rapid Digital Transformation Application Risk
Over 31% of global security leaders in our 4th Annual Hacker- Powered Security Report moved forward with digital transformation ahead of plan due to COVID-19. And in a Verizon 2020 DBIR, 43% of all breaches involved web applications. IDC estimates that by 2023, over 500 million digital apps and services will use cloud-native approaches.

12,286% 
IN MISCONFIGURATION VULNERABILITIES
Cloud Misconfiguration
In a 2020 Check Point Report, 68% of enterprises reported misconfiguration as their biggest cloud security threat. That same year, the HackerOne global hacker community reported an increase of 12,286% in misconfiguration vulnerabilities.

Mitigate Risk with Hacker-Powered Security
These risks are significant. But you can protect your organization, mitigate risk, and safeguard new attack surfaces with hacker-powered security. Hacker-powered security delivers continuous, comprehensive testing and vulnerability discovery throughout the cloud computing ecosystem. Learn more about how to improve your cloud security profile with HackerOne.

