CASE STUDY
Trinity College eliminates malware and gets a solution that supports future growth

Malware remediation
recouped 4 hours/week

Peace of mind
that everything is running smoothly

Located in the suburbs of beautiful Adelaide, Australia, Trinity College has created a modern inclusive school with state-of-the-art facilities that serve 4,200 students from Preschool through Year 12. First established in 1984 in a single building, today the College has grown to ive schools across three locations.
With a strong belief that thoughtful integration of current technologies empowers students to explore and attempt new challenges, the college features an innovation creativity school where students get hands-on experience with robotics, 3D printing, graphic design, green rooms, podcasting, and more. As an institution committed to quality and invested in innovation, Trinity College places a high priority on its endpoint security to provide students and sta with a safe, secure learning experience.

Full visibility
across 1,800 endpoints
Overview
Customer: Trinity College Industry: Education Displaced Product: Windows Defender Solution: Malwarebytes Education Site License, including:  Malwarebytes Endpoint
Detection and Response  Malwarebytes Endpoint
Detection and Response for Servers

Malwarebytes catches malware and deals with it straightaway. Done and dusted. It has given us back 20% of our work week by not having to restore infected machines, and our vendor experience is exceptional.
- Andrew Larner, Director of IT Trinity College

Challenges

Malware sneaking into the school

Trinity College was using Windows Defender to protect its nearly 1,800 endpoints from virus infections; yet, the College began experiencing an increase in sophisticated malware attacks that were going undetected and reaching student and sta machines. As the volume of cyberattacks grew, frustrations increased and productivity slowed while end users waited for the school's Information Communication and Technology (ICT) team to reimage and restore the impacted machines.
"Malware attacks were getting more prevalent and sophisticated, reaching a point where 20% of the work week was consumed with remediating and restoring machines," said Andrew Larner, Director of ICT at Trinity College. "The time required to reimage a machine also meant hours of downtime for a student or sta member, so it was imperative for us to work quickly and get those devices restored and returned as fast as we could," added Larner.

1 ,800 endpoints

Solution
On a mission to advance the College's protection against malware and other endpoint threats, Larner kicked o a multi-vendor evaluation for a new endpoint security solution. He and his ICT team members all had previous experience using Malwarebytes and knew it to be a reputable company, so Malwarebytes was placed on the vendor consideration short list along with three other vendors.

Top marks against all evaluation requirements
The team conducted a proof of concept with a keen eye on how each product and vendor would fare against their top set of requirements: lightweight agent, ease of management, stellar vendor support, cost e ectiveness, and lexibility to grow along with the school's growth.
Against these criteria, Malwarebytes stood out as the product that took top marks. "Malwarebytes is a market leader and impressed us in meeting all our requirements. Not only is it cost e ective, but it's also lightweight and easy to manage," said Larner, adding "The product itself is easy to install, and once it's on the machine, there isn't any degradation or slowness of the devices. This is important because we don't want our users to experience any latency."

Not only is it cost e ective, but it's also lightweight and easy to manage

2

A lexible solution for the school's growth
Trinity College is in an exciting expansion phase with an additional school planned to open in 2024. Preparing for this growth also played a key role in the selection criteria knowing that endpoint protection is an essential aspect of the new school's readiness and launch.
"One of the most important things in our consideration was the product's ability to grow with us because we're still growing. The Malwarebytes Site License makes that really luid for us. We can ring up and say we want an additional 100 or 500 users, and we don't need to go through any uninstallation of programs. It's quite simple and straightforward for us," said Larner.
How Malwarebytes Solved the Problem
Zero infections gives back four productive hours per week
Since rolling out Malwarebytes two years ago to its 1,800 endpoints and two servers, Trinity College hasn't experienced a single malware infection, which has been a big productivity victory for the ICT team, as well as the students and sta . The ICT team has recouped four hours per week to focus on more strategic initiatives.
"My team of 12 supports 5,000 users, so they're always going full speed. Malwarebytes immediately stopped our endpoint infections issue, so now the team doesn't have to worry about cleaning up and restoring user machines anymore. That took a big weight o their shoulders," said Larner.

Ease of use
with cloud console and a great user experience
High quality, proactive support
that provides expert guidance

Simple to manage, everything at your ingertips
During the evaluation, the ICT team was taken by how easy the Malwarebytes product is to manage. Larner can train up any team member to be comfortably savvy in using Malwarebytes within an hour, and the product's cloud-based console gives the team a central view to easily see the status and health of all the machines. "The Malwarebytes console is really informative, and it's extremely fast and responsive. Anything we want to see or do, it's instantaneous," said Larner.

3

wSoreray-mflreesesudpegprlaoydement,

Thprreeavtednetitoenc,taionnd, riseomlaetdioiant,ion.

BUSINEExSteSnBdEuNseEaFtIThoSmPeR--OmVaIkDeEpDarBeYntsMhAapLWpyAtoRoEBYTES EDR

The school's commitment for enabling high quality endpoint protection extends to students' private machines and

dSecvaicleesaabslweell. Trinity College wanted to ensure that students maintained a sRaafep, sidecduereteteccthinoonlogy experience as

tKheeeyptyroauver rMsSePfrboumsintehsesirscsaclhaboloelatnodhome equipment, and Malwarebytes madeRtehdaut caenmeeaasny-tgimoael-ttoo-rmesepeotn.d (MTTR) with

rapid detection and isolation. You'll reduce

"tIenchandodliotgioynstaociktswbituhsainpeoswseprfruoldsoulcuttsio, nMalwarebytes provides endpoint protecdtiaomnafgoer thooymouerucsuesrtos,mwehrsi'cehnmdpaokinetssit

stihmatp'slesimtopplerototedcetpolouyrasntdudmeanntasg' eh.ome machines. I have a lot of parents who coanmdmsaevnetyaobuor utetahmowthegrtiamteefaunl dtheexypeanrese

that we provide that free of charge to our students," said Larner.

associated with reimaging endpoints.

Stellar vendor experience
Investigate, threat hunt, and rollback ransomware
From the initial evaluation of Malwarebytes' Support to the ongoing monthly sync meetings, Trinity College has
appreciated the exceptional vendor-customer relationship it receives--one that's proactive and keeps the ICT team
informed on the status of any ouFtesatatnudrinegriqcuhestions, as well as future roadmap plans.
Increase your EDR upsells with ransomware rollback and "We get great support from ouroeMnthaaeblrwlehamigreehnb-vtyattoleuoselsAfetcoacteuorueensc.ttTiMvaekaleynaeaddgvueacrnasttaaegnyedooutfrhoceuuSrstusoapmlepesorrst Team. It has been a huge e ort on their behalf, and that gives us peace of mind operationally to know they're looking out for us," said Larner.

Learn more >
HOW TO UPGRADE TO MALWAREBYTES EDR
Upgrading your customers' endpoint protection is easy and can be done directly inside your Malwarebytes OneView console. For step-by-step guidance, check out these Malwarebytes Support documents:  Updating Subscriptions  Applying EDR Settings to Policies

LEARN MORE
Malwarebytes Endpoint Detection and Response for Windows and Mac o ers enterprise-class endpoint protection, advanced threat hunting, and reliable isolation, remediation, and response to cybersecurity attacks. To learn more
visit: malwarebytes.com/business/edr.

malwarebytes.com/business

corporate-sales@malwarebytes.com

1.800.520.2796

Malwarebytes believes that when people and organizations are free from threats, they are free to thrive. Much more than malware remediations, the company provides cyberprotection, privacy, and prevention to tens of thousands of consumers and organizations every day. for more information, visit www.malwarebytes.com.
Copyright  2022, Malwarebytes. All rights reserved. Malwarebytes and the Malwarebytes logo are trademarks of Malwarebytes. Other marks and brands may be claimed as the property of others. All descriptions and specifications herein are subject to change without notice and are provided without warranty of any kind.

