DATASHEET

Tripwire protects the world's leading organizations against the most damaging cyberattacks. And we've been doing it for more than 20 years, keeping pace with rapidlychanging tech complexities to defend against ever-evolving threats.

Tripwire Enterprise 8.8
Detect. Respond. Prevent.

Tripwire® Enterprise is a security configuration management (SCM) suite that provides fully integrated solutions for policy, file integrity and remediation management. Organizations can use these solutions together for a complete end-to-end SCM solution, or use its file integrity monitoring or policy management solutions on their own to address today's pressing security and compliance challenges--while building a foundation that positions them to address tomorrow's.

The suite lets security, compliance and operations teams rapidly achieve a foundational level of security across your entire enterprise, including on-premise, cloud and industrial assets, by reducing the attack surface, increasing system integrity and delivering continuous compliance. Plus, because Tripwire Enterprise integrates with enterprise applications to automate workflow with additional security point solutions like SIEMs and change management tools, organizations can broaden their security worldview and gain even greater efficiencies.

As a key IT enterprise security and compliance solution, Tripwire Enterprise supports a detect, respond and prevent strategy by:
» Detecting cyber threats and possible breach activity by highlighting possible indicators of compromise
» Responding to deviations with high value/low volume alerts, along with guidance on what to do to return the system to a known secure state
» Prevention through adapting and prioritizing threats and change deviations in order to maintain a consistently hardened and objective view of overall security posture across all devices and systems

How It Works: Tightly Integrated Controls
Tripwire Enterprise delivers four integrated features and capabilities that work in concert to create an enterprise-class SCM solution:
» Tripwire File Integrity Manager is the world's first and best file integrity monitoring (FIM) solution. It checks across large heterogeneous environments to provide threat detection and instant insight into configuration vulnerabilities while increasing operational efficiency by reducing configuration drift and unauthorized change. Tripwire's FIM can be used stand-alone to provide granular endpoint intelligence with rapid insight to security and

FOUNDATIONALCONTROLSFOR SECURI T Y,COMPL I A NCE&I TOPER AT IONS

compliance posture. When used with Tripwire Policy Manager, it delivers change-triggered configuration assessment and other system configurable responses. This turns a "passive" configuration assessment into a dynamic, continuous and real-time defensive solution that immediately detects deviations from expected secure configuration standards and hardening guidelines.
» Tripwire Policy Manager establishes and maintains consistent compliance agent-based and agentless continuous configuration assessment against over 1000 combinations of platforms and security and compliance policies, standards, regulations and vendor guidelines. The Policy Manager also offers complete policy customization, waiver and exception management, automated remediation options, and prioritized policy scoring with thresholds, weights and severities. It does all this while providing auditors with evidence of compliance and making policy status highly visible and actionable for compliance teams.
» Remediation Manager works alongside Tripwire Policy Manager to provide built-in guidance to IT security and compliance teams to repair drifted, misaligned security configurations while retaining rolebased management, approvals and sign-offs for repairs. This helps operations teams more easily and efficiently know what failed and how to return systems into a productionready state--and once they're in production, keep them there.
» Investigation and Root Cause Drilldown capabilities give IT Security and Operations teams the ability to quickly and effectively determine root causes. Systems inevitably change as enterprises constantly revise and change their people, processes and technologies. Tripwire Enterprise delivers granular drill-down, side-byside comparisons, historic baselines and comparisons to quickly provide investigative teams what they need to know: what changed, when, by whom and how often, along with "how" information.

Industry-leading Security and Compliance Capabilities
Tripwire is continuously adding new capabilities to Tripwire Enterprise to meet evolving security and compliance challenges. Tripwire Enterprise now has capabilities to protect industrial devices, and, using the MITRE ATT&CK framework, discover evidence of adversarial behavior in your environment.
» Tripwire Connect Tripwire Connect enables CISOs and security and compliance teams to connect their enterprise security details with their business context while answering: What is our current security posture? How is it trending? Can we achieve our corporate objectives for risk reduction? With Tripwire Connect you can visualize your security and risk trends across your enterprise-- whether it's the entire organization or within business units or single departments. Tripwire Connect empowers CISOs and IT security directors with actionable reporting of their IT infrastructure to reduce the cyber threat attack surface, assuring system integrity and delivering continuous compliance.
» MITRE ATT&CK Framework Developed by the MITRE corporation, the ATT&CK framework is a useful cybersecurity model illustrating how adversaries behave and details the

tactics you should use to mitigate risk and improve security. Using ATT&CK policy content for Tripwire Enterprise, you can detect and report on adversarial behavior in your environment--adding a new layer of defense to your security strategy.
Active Directory Integration
Many users need to control individuals' access levels using Active Directory (AD). Tripwire Enterprise integrates with AD to align with organizational policies, mapping AD groups to Tripwire Enterprise roles. This eliminates the need to manually create users in Tripwire Enterprise if they already exist in AD.
Automatic Cloud Asset Onboarding and Offboarding
In dynamic cloud environments, monitored assets must be tagged and scanned appropriately as soon as they are available to Tripwire Enterprise. Automatic onboarding facilitates a rule run at the time of node registration that makes it possible to get a baseline state immediately, and ensures cloud assets are discovered and scanned even if they only briefly existed between scheduled scans. Automatic offboarding allows you to choose how long your ephemeral assets should have data stored in Tripwire Enterprise.

Tripwire has taken its original host-based intrusion detection tool, which could simply detect changes to files and folders, and expanded it into a robust file integrity monitoring (FIM) solution, able to monitor detailed system integrity: files, directories, registries, configuration parameters, DLLs, ports, services, protocols, etc. Additional enterprise integrations provide granular endpoint intelligence that supports threat detection and policy and audit compliance. Years have been spent honing Tripwire Enterprise's ability to detect and judge change with policy and security risk prioritization and integration refinements to achieve high value/low volume change alerts--helping even the largest enterprises manage system configuration integrity, security and compliance.

Enterprise Support
Tripwire Enterprise can operate with agents or agentlessly, and supports:
» All major OSes: Windows, Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu, SUSE and Debian
» Many vendor-specific OSes: AIX, Solaris, HP-UX, etc.
» Directory Services: Active Directory, LDAP, etc.
» Network Devices: Firewall, IPS and IDS configurations, routers, etc.
» Databases: Oracle, MS SQL, DB2 and PostgreSQL
» Industrial Devices: Data acquisition controllers, human-machine interfaces (HMIs), programmable logic controllers (PLCs), relays, remote terminal units (RTUs), etc.
Broad, Deep Support for Components in the IT Stack
Whether IT needs to keep watch over mission-critical servers or the entire IT infrastructure--including cloud and virtualized environments, applications and industrial devices--Tripwire Enterprise provides the capability to assess, validate and enforce policies and detect all change, no matter the source.
Schedule Your Demo Today
Let us take you through a demo of Tripwire Enterprise and answer any of your questions. Visit tripwire.me/demo

Tripwire Enterprise Supports the Entire Service Stack

Applications
Directory Services
Databases File Systems and Desktops Point-of-Sale (POS) Devices
Virtualized Environments
VMware Network Devices Industrial Devices

Tripwire Enterprise provides compliance policy management and file integrity monitoring capabilities to help ensure that supported applications are configured properly for security, compliance and optimal performance and availability.
Tripwire Enterprise provides independent compliance policy management for LDAP-compliant directory server objects and attributes such as LDAP schema, password settings, user permissions, network resources, group updates and security policies.
Tripwire Enterprise works in conjunction with Tripwire's File Systems component to help organizations get their Oracle, Microsoft and IBM database servers into secure, continually high-performing states.
Tripwire Enterprise assesses the configurations of physical and virtual server and desktop file systems, including security settings, configuration parameters and permissions.
Tripwire Enterprise secures POS devices against cyber threats, manages security and compliance policies for these devices, and provides IT Operations with alerts, notifications and response guidance when possible breach indicators or "indicators of compromise" are suspected to exist on these devices.
Tripwire Enterprise works in virtualized environments--private, public and hybrid clouds. The Tripwire Enterprise console can operate as a virtual machine, and its agents can monitor any supported virtualized endpoint. This includes delivering protection for cyber threats in virtualized/cloud environments, system integrity monitoring, application of security and compliance policies, dashboards, reporting and real-time alerts and notifications.
Tripwire Enterprise provides visibility across the VMware virtual infrastructure, enabling continuous configuration control of virtual environments.
Tripwire Enterprise assesses configuration settings of the broadest range of network devices in the industry, including any device running a POSIX-compliant operating system.
Tripwire Enterprise supports monitoring industrial devices via a variety of protocols, including Modbus TCP, Ethernet/IP CIP and SNMP. In addition, agentless scanning of industrial systems running Windows or Linux is supported. For devices that cannot be scanned directly, configuration information can be collected through integrations with Rockwell Automation FactoryTalk AssetCentre, MDT AutoSave and Kepware KEPServerEX. Configuration data can also be collected using the Web Retriever, which can scrape configuration data from web pages.

Ready to dig deeper?

To learn more about Tripwire Enterprise capabilities, reports, available policies, platform support and more, click on or visit tripwire.com for the following datasheets:

» Tripwire Enterprise Report Catalog
» Tripwire Enterprise Policy Manager

» Tripwire Enterprise Remediation Manager
» Tripwire Enterprise Platform Support

» Tripwire Connect
» Industrial Cybersecurity with Tripwire Enterprise

Tripwire Enterprise Features and Benefits

Updated data collection and communication platform

Tripwire Enterprise delivers best-in-class security, integrity monitoring, and configuration and compliance management with Tripwire Axon®, a pluggable, extensible and high-performance endpoint data collection and communication platform. Users benefit from unparalleled visibility and cyber-resilience while reducing operational burdens and improving responsiveness.

Support for hybrid environments Tripwire Enterprise can monitor both on-premise and cloud environments for security and compliance. Customers can reduce costs and provide better visibility by using a single solution for both environments.

Single point of control for all IT configurations

Tripwire Enterprise provides centralized control of configurations across the entire physical and virtual IT infrastructure, including servers and devices, applications and multiple platforms and operating systems.

Advanced integration

Updated Rest APIs allow Tripwire Enterprise value to be integrated with other applications. Rest APIs enable program-

throTurgihpRwEiSrTeAEPxIspertOps helpsmyatoicucsompemnadndlaensdscotinmtroel omf aapnplaicgaitniognstosuoclhsaasnTrdipmwiroerEentteimrpreise and also extraction of collected information. Administration APIs allow automastieocnuorf itnasgksyloikuereonarbgleanreiazlattimioenm. onitoring, or run policies.

OT network monitoring

Using the Tripwire Data Collector with Tripwire Enterprise, users can monitor their industrial network for change and

compliance, resulting in a more secure environment without compromising availability.

Robust Asset View feature

Asset View lets you classify assets with business-relevant tags such as risk, priority, geographic location, regulatory policies and more. Asset View now offers provisioning with an asset tag file, increased scale for large numbers of assets, and imported asset tagging from integration with Tripwire IP360TM, giving a sharper view of risk across the entire organization.

Workflow tools for managing failed configurations

The Remediation Manager module provides role-based workflow tools that let users approve, deny, defer or execute remediation of failed configurations.

Integration with change management systems

Because Tripwire Enterprise integrates with leading Change Management System (CMS) solutions, as change happens Tripwire Enterprise automatically reconciles detected changes against change tickets and change requests.

Faster, easier audit preparation

Tripwire Enterprise dramatically reduces the time and effort for audit preparation by providing continuous, comprehensive IT infrastructure baselines along with real-time change detection and built-in intelligence to determine the impact of change.

Support for maintaining a secure, compliant state

Tripwire Enterprise combines configuration assessment with real-time file integrity monitoring (FIM) to detect, analyze and report on changes as they happen and keep configurations continually compliant. This immediate access to change information lets IT fix issues before they result in a major data breach, audit finding or long-term outage.

Automated IT compliance processes

Tripwire Enterprise automates compliance with the industry regulations and standards organizations are now subject to--from PCI, to NERC, SOX, FISMA, DISA and many others.

Automated asset onboarding and offboarding

Asset onboarding enables ephemeral asset auto-onboarding using agent tagging to designate specific systems in your dynamic cloud environments that should be scanned for baseline state and policy compliance at the moment of registration with the Tripwire Enterprise console. Likewise, automated asset offboarding automates the process of decommissioning existing nodes.

Active Directory integration

The robust integration between Tripwire Enterprise and Active Directory reduces administrative overhead and minimizes human error with auto-created users, groups and roles to ensure secure and efficient credential management.

Tripwire is the trusted leader for establishing a strong cybersecurity foundation. We protect the world's leading organizations against the most damaging cyberattacks, keeping pace with rapidly changing tech complexities to defend against ever-evolving threats for more than 20 years. On-site and in the cloud, our diverse portfolio of solutions find, monitor and mitigate risks to organizations' digital infrastructure--all without disrupting day-to-day operations or productivity. Think of us as the invisible line that keeps systems safe. Learn more at tripwire.com
The State of Security: News, trends and insights at tripwire.com/blog Connect with us on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook

©2021 Tripwire, Inc. Tripwire, Log Center/LogCenter, IP360, Tripwire Axon and others are trademarks or registered trademarks of Tripwire, Inc. All other product and company

names are property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.

TEDS88d 2112

