Zero Trust Network Access: 
 Security for Work Redefined
Support your workforce with a secure and easy-to-use solution that scales with your organizational growth.
Twingate enables organizations to rapidly implement a Zero Trust Network Access solution that offers the security and maturity required by modern organizations. Twingate empowers IT, Security, and DevOps teams to easily configure a software-defined perimeter. This is done without changing infrastructure while centrally managing user access to internal apps, whether on-prem or in the cloud.

anna@autoco.com Disconnect
4 Resources Prod Cluster Tableau Gitlab JIRA
Quit

Monday Jun 2

We've invested heavily in automation at Blend and Twingate is a powerful platform that allows us to programmatically deploy and maintain a zero trust approach to our infrastructure.
Paul Guthrie

Modern Solution for Modern Teams
Traditional network security models have fallen by the wayside and implicit trust is no longer an acceptable way to grant access to resources. The original network perimeter model is no longer sufficient: with distributed workforces becoming the standard, traditional VPNs struggle to scale with today's increased demands for secure, remote access. 

Across the globe, network perimeter walls are disappearing, access to resources and data are not granular enough, and antiquated solutions hinder performance related to these resources. As a result, Zero Trust strategies are becoming a cost of entry for the future of networking and cyber security.

twingate.com | Questions? Email sales@twingate.com

Increased Performance Combined with Reduced Risk

Give your end-users a more stable, performant option to access resources while minimizing impacts on other traffic Split tunneling passes all traffic destined for protected resources through dedicated encrypted tunnels, which means no more dropped video calls
Add a layer of security for SaaS Applications Safelist traffic to public resources (e.g., Salesforce, Netsuite, Jira) for both technical and business end-users

Create defense-in-depth with a layered approach to identity management Twingate's native two-factor authentication layers with existing IdP tools to protect both users and legacy applications
Improve your security posture by removing access from public gateways The Twingate connector is deployed behind the firewall, reducing your public attack surface by removing the public VPN gateways susceptible to cyber incidents

How Twingate Works
Twingate Twingate Client

Corp 10.0.0.0/16
A 10.0.0.10

B

GitLab 10.0.0.52

Twingate Connector

Prod
10.10.0.0/16
C

AWS VPC
11.157.69.31
D

Internet

18+ Patents Battle tested on 50M+ end user devices protected by over 18 security and performance-based patents

Enterprise-wide analytics Earned 18 awards across four different categories in G2's Winter 2022 spread, including multiple awards for Easiest to Use solution

twingate.com | Questions? Email sales@twingate.com

