ServiceNow Vendor Risk Management
Today more than ev er, third-parties are key partners in business success. Enterprises continue to increase reliance on third parties to help accelerate innov ation, digital transformation, and growth. But this greater interdependency exposes organizations to higher risk ­ a third-party's risk and compliance posture directly effects your own risk posture, resilience, and reputation.
Until now, v endor risk management has been a time-consuming and error-prone exercise comprised of spreadsheets, email, and legacy v endor risk management tools. ServiceNow Vendor Risk Management transforms the way you manage v endor risk and build supplier resilience by contextualizing and connecting thirdparty risk to business success. It deliv ers reporting on v endor risk and issues, a consistent assessment and remediation process, and increased efficiency through automation, while driv ing transparency and accountability with thirdparty stakeholders and aligning with ov erall enterprise risk management to create an integrated v iew of risk.
Dashboards and reporting Dashboards and reporting prov ide v isibility into your v endor tiering, risk and tier assessment plans, open issues, and risk across your v endor ecosystem. Dashboards are customizable, while reports can be scheduled or run ondemand. Both are a standard part of the platform.

Increase employee and vendor efficiency
Automate redundant, manual tasks, like sending, tracking, and processing assessments
Respond quickly and more confidently to issues
Increase productiv ity by focusing on v endors based on risk.
Improve resilience and risk posture
Enrich decision making by improv ing information quality
Limit risk exposure and mitigate issues quickly through continuous monitoring at scale
Enhance risk monitoring by lev eraging adv anced technology and the accessibility of a mobile, cloudbased solution

Vendor portfolio
The v endor portfolio is your database of v endors and v endor information. This includes the v endor contacts you interact with, the business serv ices and products the v endor fulfills, v endor assessment records and documentation, along with other general v endor information. As your v endor ecosystem becomes more complex, you can set up v endor hierarchies if you work with sev eral related entities, as well as create specific v endor engagements. Risk assessed can then be rolled up and aggregated for a v endor.
The existing company table within ServiceNow is the default for compiling v endor data. Vendor information can be updated manually or be integrated with an existing supplier management system, using the Now Platform® integration capabilities. Also, a self-service portal is av ailable so v endors can maintain and update their own information.

Integrate across the enterprise
Contextualize v endor risk by embedding it into business workflows
Build operational resiliency by integrating v endor risk with enterprise & operational risk programs in a single platform
Connect and collaborate with v endors as business partners through the unique Vendor Port al

© 2022 ServiceNow, Inc. All rights reserved. ServiceNow, the ServiceNow logo, Now, Now Platform, and other ServiceNow marks a re trademarks and/or registered trademarks of ServiceNow, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. Other company names, product names, and logos may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. SN_DataSheet_TEMPLATE_JAN_2022
servicenow.com

