Transform corporate identity management with Verizon ID.

Most of us have literally hundreds of di erent IDs, stored in siloed identity management (IDM) systems. Data quality and security protections for those systems vary widely.

2 to 3
Identities acquired during childhood, such as birth certificate, Social Security number and passport1

250 to 350
Number of digital identities for an average adult, not including physical forms of ID1

Are you sure that's your employee logging into your database?
Companies with remote workers can face increased risk of unauthorized users accessing corporate data and systems. How do you know it's your employee logging on, and not an imposter who picked up their device?

67%
of breaches come from three attack types: credential theft, errors and social attacks.2

Reduce the risk of credential theft with Verizon ID.
Verizon ID is a revolutionary new platform that provides zero-trust security for mobile devices and apps and convenient, passwordless single sign-on (SSO) for employees. By leveraging the power of distributed ledger technology, Verizon ID o ers unprecedented security, privacy, transparency and individual rights.

Four simple steps to enhanced identity management

1

User downloads Verizon ID application.

2

Identity is established, protected by user's private key (IAL 1).

3 4

Identity is protected and validated with identity documents, biometrics (IAL2): FaceID/TouchID, voice and live image verification.
Identity attributes are verified against third-party authoritative data sources (IAL3).

Security built right for enterprises
 Zero-trust security for mobile devices and mobile apps
 SSO for employees  Identity proofing that meets
strong identity requirements  Standard multifactor and
continuous authentication  User consent and privacy

1,477,029 loginattemptsinFY20
35,460 authentications from December 2 to December 8, 2020
What makes distributed ledger (blockchain) technology so secure?
 Immutability. Data is decentralized on a distributed ledger, making it nearly impossible to roll back and tamper with
 Security. If one block is hacked, it will be rejected from the system before damage is done
 Redundancy. The same set of data is distributed in multiple locations or nodes
 Accountability. The digital identity of each contributor is clear, making it easier to hold users accountable
Verizon ID compliance
NIST 800 63-3. Complies to IAL 3 and AAL 3 by providing multifactor authentication and Content Security Policy (CSP)-requested biometric mechanism
PAN Canadian Framework. Complies to IAL 3 and AAL 3 by providing multifactor authentication and CSP-requested biometric mechanism
CATS2 specifications. Complies to triple-blind anonymity policies for identity
Verizon ID Quick Start
Now you can get the Verizon ID platform, with integration, for a cost-e ective fixed price.
See how Verizon ID can enhance your company's security. Learn more
1 Homan Farahmand, Guidance for Decentralized Identity and Verifiable Claims, Gartner, 2020. 2 2020 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report Network details & coverage maps at vzw.com.  2021 Verizon. INF1260321

