We secure your software so you can build your world
Want to break the cycle?
The world runs on software yet, until now, there was never a way to achieve 100 percent protection of that software while it is running, wherever it is running. Advanced attacks bypass conventional, probabilistic tools like X/EDR, WAF, IDPS, EPP, and AV to cause some of the most devastating attacks of our time that have impacted services, associated data, and business operations. Many of these attacks happen within minutes and adversaries can linger unnoticed for months.
Make security response obsolete
Virsec is on a mission to make security response obsolete, and is backed by a community of more than 100 security, technology, business, and public sector leaders who have joined this critical movement.
Virsec's Deterministic Protection Platform (DPP) maps exactly what your software is supposed to do and immediately stops it from doing what it is not. The platform ensures better protection against all known and unknown threats to software workloads deployed in production and reduces threat actor dwell time from minutes to milliseconds, with true protection and runtime observability. No matter the type of application, environment, or attack method, Virsec's DPP eradicates software threats before they can cause any harm, making security response obsolete.

Precise Protection
Automatically protect vulnerable workloads, including applications,
files, processes, and memory space from aggressive, evasive server-side attacks ­ with zero
adversary dwell time.

Operational Savings
Unify protection for workloads deployed in containers and VMs,
while consolidating standard security tools and increasing automation to reduce expenses, downtime, and productivity loss.

Continual Compliance
More effectively address requirements for protection against
malware, OWASP TOP-10 and API attacks, overcome limitations and failures in other conventional solutions, and enable scalability
through advanced automation.

©2022 VIRSEC

226 Airport Parkway, San Jose, CA 95110 VIRSEC.COM

Customer Snapshot
FORTUNE 1000 ENTERPRISES

FORTUNE 5000 ENTERPRISES

PUBLIC SECTOR

Industry Recognition

Recognized for Cloud Workflow Protection
Platform (CWPP)

Covers 95% of weighted threats scored by MITRE

Designated Cyber Catalyst by MARSH,
only Application Security vendor

Fastest Growing, Most Innovative, Best App Security

Best Application Security, ICS/SCADA,
Next Gen Security

#1 of Top 20 Hot New Security Products

Strategic Partners

Virsec by the Numbers

 $136M+ of capital invested by security market leaders ($100M Series C in June 2021)
 3rd party classified government and military tests have validated claims of 100% protection against cyberattacks

 60+ patents (38 awarded), breakthrough technology -- product launched Q4 2019
 Disrupting a $30B+ TAM (10% CAGR)
 200+ person global workforce

Visit www.virsec.com to learn more.

 Strong partnerships & growing recognition by industry, analysts, and leaders
 Expectation to grow the business 5x in 2022 and beyond.

©2022 VIRSEC

226 Airport Parkway, San Jose, CA 95110 VIRSEC.COM

