SOLUTION BRIEF

VISIBILITY AND RANSOMWARE CONTAINMENT
Ransomware Happens. We Stop It From Spreading.

Illumio quickly and easily pinpoints systems at risk and contains ransomware to keep your organization safe

To Stop a Breach, See Your Risks

You Can Contain Ransomware

Preventing a cyber breach is nearly impossible. Traditional detection and response security technologies are no longer enough. It only takes one open door to expose your entire network.
The key is to keep ransomware and cybercriminals from moving through your network to get to your most important digital assets.
To stop this "lateral movement" of security threats across your digital infrastructure, you need to understand the communications flows for your applications and services -- know exactly what is talking to what.
But organizations struggle to identify their vulnerabilities, which then makes it much more difficult to block risky pathways and shut down routes for ransomware.
Fortunately, you can stop a majority of ransomware attacks by closing just a few types of pathways.

Illumio's pioneering technology makes it quick and easy to see your vulnerabilities and take simple steps to protect your organization.
Our customers canproactivelystopransomware, malware and other attacks from moving beyond their initial entry point. With Illumio, you can prevent cyberincidents from becoming cyber disasters.
Driven by our unique automated mapping tool and policy engine, organizations can quickly and safely block pathways to stop ransomware and other cyberattacks.
Illumio's host-based approach is decoupled from the network, radically simplifying firewall management.
Our automated policy creation and enforcement makes it remarkably easy to control the flow of communications across all parts of your IT infrastructure.

Build Confidence in Your Defenses
Illumio makes it simple and easy to stop ransomware in its tracks

Gain Risk-Based Visibility
Capture critical insights in as little as an hour by automatically mapping communications across your applications, devices and the cloud.

Assess Your Vulnerabilities
Improve your digital defenses and limit your breach exposure by pinpointing the applications and systems that are most at risk.

Take Action to Contain Ransomware
Protect against malware and other cyberattacks proactively and during an incident by blocking unsafe network communications.

How Illumio Contains Ransomware
We don't make firewalls, but we can totally block traffic
Map Vulnerabilities
Automatically build real-time application dependency maps. Understand your traffic flows in as little as an hour.
· See traffic flows across your data center, cloud environments and endpoint devices
· Identify applications whose workloads are creating unnecessary security risks
· Assess risk from your network communications out to the Internet
Lock Down Risky Pathways
Easily block pathways and ports used in ransomware and other cyberattacks.
· Proactively block common ransomware paths through protocols such as RDP and SMB
· Shut down outdated or unnecessary pathways previously established by legacy tech (FTP, Telnet, etc.)
· Isolate core services, controlling both inbound and outbound traffic
Create an Emergency Switch
Through Illumio's unique testing capabilities, pre-build policies to safely activate emergency protections in case of a breach.
· Understand exactly how an enforcement policy will affect workflows and services
· Activate emergency lockdown in seconds; surgically block network communications
· Track workflows in real time; integrate with your SecOps tools (SIEM/SOAR)

SOLUTION BRIEF
"With Illumio, we know exactly what is talking to what. No one wants to be the company that gets breached. But if that happens, we have peace of mind that the breach will be contained."
Nathan Powell, IT Operations Manager, Investa
Learn more about how Illumio can help your organization gain the visibility and control it needs to contain ransomware and other cyberattacks.
https://www.illumio.com/solutions/ visibility-ransomware-containment

Illumio, the pioneer and market leader of Zero Trust Segmentation, stops breaches from becoming cyber disasters. Illumio Core and Illumio Edge automate policy enforcement to stop cyberattacks and ransomware from spreading across applications, containers, clouds, data centers, and endpoints. By combining intelligent visibility to detect threats with security enforcement achieved in minutes, Illumio enables the world's leading organizations to strengthen their cyber resiliency and reduce risk.
Copyright © 2021 Illumio, Inc. All rights reserved. Illumio® is a trademark or registered trademark of Illumio, Inc. or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third-party trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.

