5 REASONS TO AUGMENT YOUR EDR / XDR
with VMRay Analyzer

Malware threat landscape is constantly shifting towards advanced cyber attacks. It's hard to balance the need for increasing the level of detection with the reality of alert fatigue. It's not just about detecting malicious behavior bypassing the security controls ≠ you also need to stay in control and keep in mind the valuable analyst resources.
VMRay lets you detect whatever bad, allowing you to adopt and integrate any technology you need, all without sacrificing security.
Here are five reasons your Security Team needs VMRay Analyzer to augment EDR:

1

Identifying detection gaps is your responsibility.
In today's ever-evolving threat landscape, modern adversaries are well-funded and organized to discover new ways to bypass security detections. New technologies in the endpoint protection space allow security teams to have better visibility across every edge of the network while empowering on-time incident response. However only relying on dynamic behavior analysis capabilities of EDR/XDRs which is optimized for known malware threats is not sufficient.

This is exactly where VMRay comes into play as a second line of defense. Built upon the powerful hypervisor-based architecture, VMRay Analyzer provides unparalleled detonation capabilities for neutralizing unknown threats.

2

Alert investigation needs to be accelerated by automation.
What domain is used for command and control? Or what files does it drop? These are some of the questions a security analyst is looking to answer whenever there is an unknown executable or suspicious file associated with an EDR alert. VMRay can be the first line of alert triage that helps you find answers to these questions. This improves the alert investigation experience and provides robust automation workflows.

3

You don't want to miss the same threat twice.
Not only do you manage endpoint threat detection, but you might also manage the whole lifecycle of an identified threat down to the observables and IOCs. Thorough and accurate threat analysis engine of the VMRay Analyzer ensures future protection by delivering reliable verdicts, actionable IOCs and artifacts to be blocked or added to the EDR watchlist.

5 Reasons to Augment Your EDR / XDR
© VMRay GmbH. All rights reserved.

vmray.com

4

Your detection engineers want to tune their detection rules and make it easy to triage.
Defending against sophisticated threats performed by real adversaries is hard. It requires a multi-stage detection engineering mindset with continuous tuning. The signals of an advanced cyber attack are not as visible to be captured by existing alert configurations and rulesets.

VMRay delivers an in-depth visibility into the unknown threat behaviour which allows you to see how it's mapped to the MITRE ATT&CK Framework, and also enables you to codify the detection logic for all attacks. This in turn, also improves the speed and quality of the alert triage process.

5

Your IR analysts need rich context beyond the IOCs.
You win when the IR analyst on the end of the line take the right response action. Good presentation and context around the triaged EDR/XDR alert gives everybody in the team ≠including junior analysts - situational awareness that will facilitate a solid response.

VMRay gives your IR team to have accurate, complete and sufficient context around the incident. This context-centric IR approach allows you to improve the SOC metrics such as MTTD / MTTR that allows you to increase ROI of the EDR/XDR investment.

Connect with ease
VMRay's out-of-the-box integrations make it easy to augment your security stack

About VMRay
At VMRay, our purpose is to liberate the world from undetectable digital threats.
Led by reputable cybersecurity pioneers, we develop best-of-breed technology to detect unknown threats that others miss. Thus, we empower organizations to augment and automate threat detection and analysis.

Augment your EDR/XDR now. FREE TRIAL AT VMRAY.COM

Contact Us Email: sales@vmray.com Phone: +1 888 958-5801

VMRay GmbH Universit‰tsstraﬂe 142 44799 Bochum  Germany

VMRay Inc. 22 Boston Wharf Road, 7th Floor Boston, MA 02210  USA

5 Reasons to Augment Your EDR / XDR
© VMRay GmbH. All rights reserved.

vmray.com

