About Us
Votiro Cloud
Zero Trust Content Security
Can you trust the data and file content entering your organization? Votiro Cloud's Zero Trust open-API proactively disarms content of known, unknown, & zero-day malware threats at scale without adding friction, interrupting user or application workflows, or impacting file fidelity. Votiro reduces work, alerts, & risk for IT and security teams while enabling the seamless flow of safe files.
Content Disarm & Reconstruction Disarms Weaponized Files without Impacting the User Experience:
Votiro's Positive Selection® technology, which includes solutions for Email, Web Applications, and Web Browser, sanitizes all malicious code and exploit threats from incoming files while preserving the integrity and functionality of the original file. Votiro protects against 150+ weaponized file types including .ppt, docs, pdfs, and image files, all the way to more complex formats like zipped and password-protected files. Unlike detection-based file security solutions that scan for suspicious elements and block some malicious files, Votiro's Positive Selection® technology singles out only the safe elements of each file, ensuring every file that enters your organization is safe. No more blocking, quarantining, or sandboxing needed!
Don't Let Security Slow Down Business
The only file security solution that ensures all files that are completely safe.

Completely Secure Files, No Matter The Source

Votiro Cloud for Email
Easily connects with all mail servers, protecting
all content and email attachments without delaying
or disrupting business

Votiro Cloud for Web Browser
Integrates into all existing proxy servers
and secures any file downloaded from
Chromium browsers

Votiro Cloud for Web Applications
Protects against malicious files uploaded via company-specific
web apps, portals, or other services used to receive customer files

Easy implementation: less than 10 minutes Zero training required

Seamless integration with existing solutions Supports both Cloud & On-Prem

Try Votiro Cloud
To learn more about implementing Votiro's technology to secure your O365 environment from threats delivered via files, please schedule a demo or contact a Votiro partner today.
Schedule A Demo

About Votiro
Founded in 2012 by leading file security experts, Votiro is an award-winning cybersecurity company trusted by global organizations, including top Fortune 500 companies, to eliminate file-based threats while ensuring zero interruption to business. Headquartered in the United States, with offices in Australia, Israel, and Singapore.
Votiro is trusted by millions of users worldwide to access billions of files with complete peace of mind. Votiro is a Gartner Cool Vendor award winner and certified by the international standard of Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation (ISO/IEC 15408).
Learn more at votiro.com & info@votiro.com

