Security Built For DevOps
9 out of 10 breaches begin with vulnerabilities created in the coding process, yet only 15% of companies integrate security into the SDLC because until now it has meant a trade-off between security and time-to market.
With Wabbi, teams no longer have to decide between security and agility. Wabbi's Continuous Security platform integrates, automates, and orchestrates your application security program to dynamically manage security as part of your existing development pipelines.

Lack of AppSec Orchestration is More Than Just a Security Risk. It's a Delivery Risk

Extent to Which Current Application Security Process is Delaying Time to Market

47%
To a Great Extent

53%
To Some Extent

IDG & Wabbi, 2022

Moving Beyond The Breach
When fully integrated into the SDLC, benefits extend beyond reducing security risk into hard business ROI

70%
Improved Producticity

67%
Cost Savings

67
%
Reduced Risk of Breach
IDG & Wabbi, 2022

Why Wabbi?

Seamless SDLC Integration
While 98% of organizations place high importance on integrating security throughout the development lifecycle, 72% of
organizations report poor collaboration between DevOps and security teams in development projects resulting in delayed projects or suboptimal application security.
Integrating with existing security and development toolsets, Wabbi's platform centralizes, automates, and orchestrates security
governance and vulnerability management to empower development teams to own AppSec.
With Wabbi's Continuous Security platform, not only do enterprises decrease their security risk, but also overall business risk, improving productivity and time-to-market by eliminating bottlenecks.

AppSec Command Center

Guided Decisions

One place to manage your end-to-end application security program, to ensure the right information is always available at the right time.

Real-time insight and step-by-step guidance to quickly and accurately resolve issues like policy errors, overrides, and zero-day response.

Vulnerability Management
Automated security issue prioritization to ensure the most important vulnerabilities get fixed without clogging up the backlog.

Security Gatekeeper
Version and environment level release management removes the need for manual sign-off while ensuring code is always ready to ship.

AppSec Observer
Dynamically monitor and record security posture automatically while simultaneously keeping all stakeholders informed and on task.

Implement
Push the right security information to the right stakeholder at the right time.
Assess
Analyze, correlate, and prioritize security results to manage in the backlog

Categorize
Automatically assign a custom security profile based on project design attributes.

Stop Thinking About Integrating Security
and Start Doing It

Authorize
Automate the go/no-go decision for release, by version and environment.

Monitor
Update projects and stakeholders with the most current security requirements

Continuous Security
/kntinyo os/ /skyo ord/
The practice of automating and orchestrating the application security processes in the SDLC, so code is always ready to ship in compliance with security.

When DevOps Teams Are Empowered To Own AppSec...

Organizations are less likely to release applications with security vulnerabilities
Organizations are more likely to have already adopted a continuous security strategy.
Organizations automate feedback processes between security and development teams.

Empowered
50%

Unempowered
73%

Empowered
17%

Unempowered
9%

Empowered
49%

Unempowered
25%

Wabbisoft.com | info@wabbisoft.com

