WhiteSource Has You Covered
Prevent the Preventable, Remediate the Rest.
Secure Your Open Source
Open source components make up 80% or more of the codebase in modern applications. With the increase in open source use, however, comes an increase in risk. In the last year alone, the number of open source security vulnerabilities has grown by more than 50%. To manage open source security at scale, enterprises need a solution that goes beyond detection to focus on the prioritization and remediation of open source vulnerabilities. Enterprises also require a solution that relieves developers from the burden of AppSec tasks by automatically managing open source security issues.
Software Composition Analysis
Software composition analysis (SCA) provides security professionals and developers with automated tools that ensure open source components are secure without slowing down development. Advanced SCA tools enforce policies and identify vulnerabilities before they are pulled into your codebase. They also continually monitor all open source components in production systems to provide alerts on vulnerable components in real time.

WhiteSource Helps You Build Secure Software Using a Remediation-First Approach
Accelerate secure software delivery at scale · Automatically detect, prioritize, and remediate open source security
vulnerabilities at every stage of the software development life cycle
· Eliminate up to 85% of security alerts with effective usage analysis · Prioritize risk based on business impact
Cover the widest range of threats and attack vectors · Most comprehensive vulnerability database in the industry · Protection against supply chain attacks · Coverage for containers · Support for more than 200 programming languages
Bridge the security knowledge gap · Native integrations that fit seamlessly into development workflows to minimize
friction between developer and security teams
· Auto-remediation to eliminate human error · Automated dependency updates based on crowd intelligence that won't break the build
Security Automation Throughout the SDLC
WhiteSource gives developers and security professionals the tools they need to manage open source use throughout the entire software development life cycle. With powerful developer tools that integrate into development environments, WhiteSource helps shift security left. By automatically preventing vulnerable components from entering organizations' code base, you save time and money.
WhiteSource continuously monitors every open source component in production systems in your code base ­ including all direct and transitive dependencies ­ for newly discovered vulnerabilities, alerting users if a vulnerability is found in one of their components. WhiteSource then provides automated remediation advice so that open source components can be updated with confidence.
From development to build to production and beyond, WhiteSource has you covered.
FREE TRIAL: See for yourself how WhiteSource provides the widest range of coverage for open source
threats and attack vectors. Sign up for a free trial at www.whitesourcesoftware.com.

