SOLUTION BRIEF
Why INKY for Managed Services?
INKY is a cloud-based email security platform designed with Managed Service Providers in mind. INKY adds a thin ­ but powerful ­ layer that
blocks threats, empowers users and protects organizations.
INKY's use of machine learning, cluster analysis, visual computing, and social graphing makes it the most effective solution available to prevent dangerous threats from reaching the inbox while educating the recipient.
The INKY Edge: A Two-Pronged Approach with Computer Vision
Nearly three dozen computer-vision and text-analysis models analyze each email as both a person and a machine does. The message is rendered in a headless Chrome browser into a visual representation of the actual email. INKY then matches the logos, fonts, and colors to brands. Using fuzzy logic and cluster analysis, INKY can detect even logos that have been altered slightly to evade explicit pattern-matching.
The machine side looks at header information, doing DMARC analysis on DKIM and SPF records and other validity tests. INKY compares what the email "is trying to be" with what it actually is, checking to see whether the message originates from an email server under the control of the brand implied by the visual elements.
Social Graphing: A Behavioral Model for Every Sender
INKY uses social graphing as a key tool in its anti-phishing arsenal. Once INKY is installed, it starts building dynamic profiles and behavior models of legitimate senders for all protected recipients. As the models grow, INKY uses anomaly detection to filter out and block impersonation attempts.
inky.com

The INKY Difference...
Protect and Educate
There are four million lines of code that enable INKY's unique banners to work, but your clients will never have to encounter any of them. What they will experience, is a seamless system that catches the most elusive threats, while protecting, training, and empowering users across the enterprise.
No Installation Required
INKY is a cloud-based solution and can be completely installed in 1 - 2 hours with no client software installation needed. INKY is installed in line and works its magic independently of other system elements. INKY works on all platforms, email clients, and devices.
Easy to Deploy and Fully Scalable
INKY deploys inline, integrating with Microsoft 365, Exchange, or Google Workspace. INKY supports quick deployment, staged roll-out to users by groups, and the ability to quarantine, folder, or drop malicious email using standard controls.
Multi-Tenancy Solution
INKY was built as a multi-tenant solution from the ground up. Robust rolebased access controls ensure each tenant's data is isolated and remains invisible to others, giving admins flexibility to manage clients with ease.
Simple to Administer
The Admin Control Panel puts the entire phishing landscape at your fingertips with simple, intuitive controls for functionality. Administrators spend less time managing threats and creating user reports.
Advanced Reporting Capabilities
The Administrator reporting dashboard shows which threats have been identified and blocked. Administrators can run time-bounded queries to view what threats have been encountered and blocked and can drill down into individual messages.
For more information visit: https://www.inky.com/partners/email-security-msp

