www.wib.com info@wib.com

Full Lifecycle API Security Platform

Why API Security
APIs are designed to allow access to your data, systems and applications.

API development velocity has changed WAFs weren't built for APIs, and according to Gartner, API are the #1 attack vector.

APIs expose your organization Business Logic.

API Security Threats
LACK OF Visibility & ownership
Companies and security organizationsare not awareof all of their APIs.
Data Leaks & Compliance
PII leakagethrough APIsharmscompliance withregulations e.g.GDPR, HIPAA, Open Banking etc.
Hacking & Abuse
Companies don'tknow who is usingtheir APIs andwhether usage is authorized andreasonable.

Cybersecurity 
 Leaders
Founded by former CTO of Israel's National Cyber Directorate, we have the top Israeli Cybersecurity talent.

Proprietary 
 AI Technology
Patent-pendingAI & ML technologycreated by leading academics with PhDs in CS and Machine Learning.

Full API Lifecycle
Fromdevelopment to production- our products secure APIs and defend against API Security threats.

Our Full Lifecycle platform
Full protection across the entire API lifecycle, through Development, Testing and Production.

Production engine
Discovery and Inspection of APItraffic, using AI and ML proprietaryalgorithms 
 (patent-pending).

PRODUCTION

TESTING

TEsting engine
A testing environmentenabling security teams to simulate API attacks with a singleclick.

development engine
Scan and analyze code to discoverAPI threats &vulnerabilities, in order to remediatethem in development.

DEVELOPMENT

COMPLIANCE

Compliance Egngine
Ensuring APIs arecompliant with major regulations e.g.GDPR, HIPAA, Open Banking etc.

Request a demo of Wib
+972 (0) 54-794-7114 info@wib.com wib.com

Experts Focus on API Security
API will be the #1 attack vector by2022, WAFs alone are ineffective.
AI-powered API Security solutionsare gaining widespread adoption.
APIs expose application logic and sensitive data, thus have increasingly become a target for attackers.

