Secure everything 
 you build and run in the cloud

If you had one hour, how would
you materially improve your cloud
security posture?
Cloud estates are a complex interconnection of technologies, architectures, and environments -- often managed by independent, autonomous
" teams. Answering essential questions, like, where
do I have publicly exposed containers with high
" Kubernetes privileges and vulnerabilities or even " more basic ones like, what databases are exposed " to the internet is painfully difficult. The reason is
that current approaches require multiple tools that create a fragmented view of risk, perpetuate operational silos, and force teams to manually correlate thousands of alerts. 

Wiz has fundamentally reimagined security in the cloud by unifying visibility across the entire stack and weaving together interconnected risk factors. Wiz tells you what needs your immediate attention, bridges the gap between security and development teams, and eliminates the need for specialized analysts -- enabling every business to build faster and more securely.
Wiz unifies several cloud technologies
Secure Posture Management (CSPM)
 Vulnerability Management
 Workload Protection (CWPP)
 Infrastructure Entitlement Management (CIEM)



Implement full coverage in minutes
) Wiz scales effortlessly to any cloud environment with zero impact on resource or workload performance" ) It connects in minutes via a single API per cloud and Kubernetes environment and achieves complete
coverage immediately -- no agents or sidecars required.G ) It then collects information from every layer of your cloud stack without disrupting your business
operations or requiring on-going maintenance.
See your whole cloud environment
) Wiz builds an inventory of everything running in your infrastructure -- configuration languages, frameworks, libraries, CI/CD tools, compute platforms, network, security, identity assets, databases, and every application component -- across environments, accounts, workloads, and users.G
) It delivers unified coverage across clouds and compute architectures from virtual machines and containers to serverless functions.G
) The Wiz Security Graph displays all cloud resources along with their fields and interconnections in real-time to uncover the attackers view to a breach.
Focus on the risks that matter
) Wiz continuously analyzes configurations, vulnerabilities, network, identities, access, and secrets across accounts, users, and workloads to discover the toxic combinations that combined represent the real risk. G
) Cloud controls take the work out of manually analyzing siloed policies to deliver a prioritized list of the alerts that actually matter.G
) Granular access control empowers teams to segment complex environments and streamline processes and alert routing.
Prevent the next breach
) Wiz empowers security teams to control CI/CD pipelines with ease. A single, unified policy framework ensures end-to-end visibility and scans across multiple architectures in order to prevent issues from ever reaching production in the first place. G
) Built-in remediation guidance helps remove the guesswork when addressing security issues, and optional auto-remediation can be set up to support fixing misconfigurations with a single click. G
) A fully exposed API, numerous integrations, and support for custom SOAR playbooks together enable unlimited workflow flexibility and vastly reduce the time to remediation (TTR).

"I've been doing security for 24 years, and I've never had a security tool
deploy faster than Wiz, let alone return this much value. The mean time to
value was under a half hour."
 Anthony Belfiore, CSO, Aon
"The Wiz platform is the consolidation of tools across all of the security domains we've identified as must-do to protect our cloud workloads."
 Adam Fletcher, CSO, Blackstone

"Wiz replaced our incumbent and instantly got us out of chasing false
positives and into identifying and remediating critical risks... scaling the
Infosec team's reach and velocity." 
 Melody Hildebrandt, CISO, Fox
"The instant, out-of-the box visibility and risk reduction Wiz provides make it one of the best security tools I've seen in a long time." 
 Emily Health, CSO, DocuSign

©2022 Wiz Inc. All rights reserved.

wiz.io

