DATASHEET
Protect against Breaches with 24/7 Zero Trust as a Service

Business Benefits
Receive Actionable Alerts with Minimal False Positives
Prevent Malware Infection
Prevent Unauthorized Process Execution
Detect and Contain Threats in Minutes with One-Click
Reduce Attack Surface, Blast Radius & Blind Spots
Obtain Best-In Class Intelligence
Adopt Zero Trust Without Business Disruption

Secure your business from advanced threats and gain peace of mind 24/7 with Xassure that tracks down the most elusive threats with just-in-time detection and response.
Today's threat landscape is constantly evolving, but many organizations still rely on traditional perimeter-based security and have resource-strapped IT teams, leading to poor visibility, slow investigations, and scores of false positives. Faced with such challenges, organizations, especially those on a digital transformation journey, need a comprehensive security solution that sweeps their network assets and security infrastructure in search of evasive hidden threats without increasing operational overhead and cost or causing business disruption.
ColorTokens Xassure is that solution.
Available as a monthly subscription and customized to suit your business needs, Xassure is an outcomedriven, managed Zero Trust security solution that both augments your security preparedness and enhances your security posture with seamless Zero Trust adoption. Xassure complements your security IT team with advanced threat detection, response, and breach containment capabilities. You get the peace of mind that comes with knowing your network is protected 24/7 with robust Zero Trust security.
With Xassure, our certified security experts watch your back 24x7 and ensure that the security alerts you receive are truly actionable, not false positives. Harnessing the power of AI/ML, ColorTokens' monitoring platform and a global threat knowledge base, our experts halt advanced attacks very early in the cyber kill chain, thus stopping the enterprise-wide intrusion attempts.

Key Capabilities

Prevent
Attacks that can easily bypass traditional defense mechanisms

Detect

Stealthy threats

Respond

at lightning speed

Contain

Outsmarting Cyberattackers

Guard

AI/ML Based Threat Detection
XDR Capabilities Across Network, Cloud, and Endpoints
Ransomware and Data Theft Prevention Using Specialized Threat Models
APT Detection Based on MITRE ATT&CK Framework
Extended Integration Across Existing Solutions
Zero Trust Implementation with Managed Services - Aligned to NIST SP 800-207

2

Challenges and Solutions

Challenge
Shortage of Skilled In-House Security Staff High Reliance on Traditional Security Measures (AV, NTA, SIEM) High Operational Security Overhead Timely Detection and Response to Insider and Advanced Threats Remote Workforce Monitoring
Xassure Services

ColorTokens Solution
ColorTokens Xassure works as an extension of your security team by leveraging AI/ML, highly skilled team of experts and knowledge base to deliver advanced threat detection and incident response for endpoints and workloads.
Unified visibility into network and endpoint traffic with integrated breach detection and response capabilities. A comprehensive attack scenario analysis helps ascertain the blast radius and root cause of the attack.
Significant reduction of false positives improves operational efficiency with early detection and quick response to any breach through 24x7 monitoring and managed service.
ColorTokens' team of analysts and investigators leverage network and endpoint data coupled with different threat models and AI/ML-based threat detection capabilities for early detection of insider and advanced threats.
Monitoring services aligned with Zero Trust architecture protect critical resources in hybrid clouds and on-premises. The service also monitors remote users' access to corporate assets, thereby minimizing threats.

Proactive Breach Protection
Modern cyberattacks easily bypass signature-based security controls. Xassure leverages AI/ML, data scientists, threat hunters, and incident responders to detect sophisticated and hidden threats, advanced malware like ransomware, and file-less attacks. The service delivers deep monitoring and analysis across network and endpoints to provide contextual and early detection. Additionally, Xassure guarantees your defence readiness by continuously elevating your security posture. This involves continuous mitigation of observed gaps, periodic vulnerability scans and validation of defense mechanisms using red/blue teaming, and penetration testing.

XDR-Based Advanced Threat Monitoring and Incident Response
Relying on signatures and IOCs is no longer sufficient to detect advanced threats lurking in your environment. Defending against advanced attack calls for advanced anomaly identification techniques and pattern-based detection. ColorTokens' team of certified security experts leverages AI/ML, a global threat knowledge base, and the curated intelligence of more than 108 MITRE ATT&CK techniques to quickly detect and contain any anomaly observed across endpoints and network. All the security incidents are thoroughly analyzed and investigated before notifying the customer, reducing alert fatigue with fewer false positives.

Seamless Zero Trust Adoption
ColorTokens' experts collaborate with customers to design, implement, and operationalize the Zero Trust security framework leveraging ColorTokens' offerings. The scope spans servers, workloads, endpoints, and critical IT assets and includes customized white-glove onboarding and deployment of ColorTokens Xshield for workload visibility and security and Xprotect for endpoint protection in the customer's environment.

Managed Micro-segmentation and Monitoring
Security controls need to scale with the rapidly growing business and digital transformation initiatives to thwart modern-day threats. ColorTokens' experts ensure security posture is intact even as your business scales and evolves. This service includes daily operational updates to micro-segments, defined policies, and endpoint security profiles. In addition, experts continuously monitor managed resources for any common and frequently occurring threats and notify the concerned teams.

3

Key Features and Benefits 4

Features / Capabilities
Aligns with MITRE ATT&CK® Supporting 108 Techniques Detects Attack Variants from 125 APT Groups
Detects Threats Using AI/ML
Tracks 1,500+ Active Ransomwares Curates Threat Intelligence from 80M Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) Analyzes Networks, Endpoints and User Behavior Concurrently Responds to and Contains Threats Using ColorTokens Xshield and Xprotect Products
Monitors Threats 24x7

Business Benefits
Detect and contain malicious assets early and reduce the infection radius. Achieve a low probability of advanced persistent threats which are sophisticated, well-funded, and difficult to detect. Accelerate threat detection of complex cyberevents by adding necessary context to prioritize investigation efforts.
Detect ransomware attacks early to reduce the chances of financial and brand reputation damage. Obtain timely, reliable, and contextual notification of global threat outbreaks across industry verticals and geographies. Minimize false positives by utilizing security analysts and resources efficiently.
Contain and remediate threats early in the cyber kill chain and minimize the blast radius of the attack.
Monitor networks, endpoints, and user behavior in real time across multi-vendor and hybrid environments.

"
"We chose to work with ColorTokens because of its commitment to simplifying our security operations and its minimally invasive, clouddelivered approach to our infrastructure and team. Implementation was seamless from start to finish: we deployed ColorTokens' lightweight agents on our 700 systems, and got up and running with minimal configuration and no disruption or redesign. This was of critical importance to us, as it allowed us to continue our customer service business without skipping a beat."
­ CEO ITCube Solutions Pvt.

4

How Xassure Elevates Your Security Posture

LOG COLLECTION
Workload Visibility and Segmentation
Endpoint and host protection
Colortokens Agent Custom Agent

XDR SECURITY OPERATIONS
ML Powered Advanced Threat Detection MITRE ATT&CK Models Specialized Ransomware Detection Models Advanced Data Theft Detection Behavioral Analytics One Click Containment
COLORTOKENS TEAM OF SECURITY EXPERTS
Incident Responders Data Scientists Ethicle Hackers Threats Investigators Threats Analysts Threat Hunters

DELIVERED SECURITY SERVICES
Breach Protection XDR-Based Advanced Threat Monitoring and Incident Response Zero Trust Adoption Managed Micro-Segmentation and Monitoring Security Posture Elevation

5

Zero Trust Adoption

Managed Micro -
segmentation & Monitoring

XDR Based Advanced Threat Monitoring and Incident Response

Xassure Packages Tailored to Your Specific Needs
Installation and Configurations on Workloads and Endpoints Micro-segmentation and Endpoint Security Profile Design and Implementation Product Subscription for Xshield and Xprotect Management of ColorTokens Products Manage day-to-day Security Operations of ColorTokens Products Threat Alerting for Common and frequently occurring threats Product Support Deep Monitoring using Patterns, Signature, and Reputation Check Validation of Threats using Analysis and Investigation Detection of APTs using MITRE ATT&CK Framework Customization of Threat Alerts for customer specific scenarios Global Threat Intelligence covering Bad Hash, Bad IP, Bad Domain Managed Incident Response Managed Breach Response Threat Containment Regular Review of Operations Effectiveness AI/ML Based Detection for Advanced Ransomware and Data Theft attempts AI/ML based detection of advanced Stealthy and Hidden Attacks Behavioral Based Detection of Attacks that abuse trusted processes and applications authorized by the business Periodic measurement of posture improvement and elevation recommendations Periodic RED/BLUE Teaming and Penetration Testing Exercises Periodic Vulnerability Scans

Xassure Essentials

Xassure Prime

Xassure Prime +

8X5

24X7

24X7

Breach Protection

6

WANT TO CUSTOMIZE XASSURE?
CONTACT US
ColorTokens Inc. is a leading innovator in SaaS-based Zero Trust cybersecurity solutions providing global enterprises with a unique set of products and services for securing applications, data, and users across cloud and hybrid environments. Through its award-winning Xtended ZeroTrustTM Platform and context-aware machine learning-powered technologies, ColorTokens helps businesses accurately assess and improve their security posture dynamically. As cloud adoption grows, traditional perimeters get redefined, and new attack vectors and threat actors materialize, corporations recognize their security posture needs to reflect their Zero Trust philosophy. ColorTokens' technology allows customers to achieve Zero Trust by utilizing rich, meaningful contextual information about the application, microservice, or protected resource, so customers can apply Zero Trust with as secure of a perimeter as they can. ColorTokens' cloud-based SaaS platform can automatically deploy next-generation security controls and increase security posture dynamically without any new hardware, downtime, reboots, or changes to a client's existing systems. With a team of over 400 people, ColorTokens has global office locations in Santa Clara, California; New York; London; Copenhagen, Denmark; and Bengaluru, India. For more information, please visit www.colortokens.com. © 2021 ColorTokens. All rights reserved. ColorTokens , ColorTokens logo and other trademarks and service marks are registered marks of ColorTokens and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.

