OVERVIEW
ZeroFox External Cybersecurity Platform
Protecting You Beyond the Perimeter

OVERVIEW

Table of Contents

Overview

Problem Overview

3

Solution Overview

3

The ZeroFox Platform

3

Digital Risk Protection: Protect

Assets Beyond The Perimeter

4

Use Cases

5

Full-Spectrum Threat Intelligence:

Predict Emerging Threats

7

Global Intelligence Types

7

Global Intelligence

Reports & Deliverables

8

Threat Hunting Module

8

Global Intelligence Collection

8

Data Source Coverage

9

OnwatchTM Managed

Threat Intelligence

9

Discovery Tool

9

Ondemand Investigations

& Dark Operations

10

Remediation & Disruption: Disrupt

Attacks & Dismantle Attacker

Infrastructure

11

Takedown-As-A-Service

11

Adversary Disruption

11

Global Disruption Network (GDN) 11

App Library & Integrations

12

Integrated Threat Intelligence Feed 12

ZeroFox App Connector

12

ZeroFox App Library

12

AI Analysis & Platform

Capabilities

13

AI-Driven Analysis

13

Alerts

13

Foxscripts - Custom Analysis

13

Dashboard & Access

13

Rules And Policies

13

Reporting

13

Customer Success

14

Launch & Implementation

14

Managed, Technical &

Professional Services

14

ZeroFox University

14

Get Started With ZeroFox

14

About ZeroFox

15

2

OVERVIEW

PROBLEM OVERVIEW
In today's digital-first world, almost every business uses public platforms -- social media, web sites, mobile apps, collaboration tools and more -- to connect with customers. However, these same platforms are being weaponized by attackers to wreak havoc on our digital lives, creating a massive, public attack surface. Attackers have equal access to customers and stakeholders; and will attempt to impersonate brands and executives, spoof protected sites, siphon business revenue, steal sensitive data, phish employees and destroy customer trust. Unfortunately, many of today's digital platforms are largely ungoverned, unmonitored and unprotected beyond traditional security perimeters.
With a fundamental lack of visibility and control, a shortage of skills and outdated security systems, organizations struggle to identify and remediate external digital risks and protect themselves across this vast public attack surface.
SOLUTION OVERVIEW
ZeroFox, a global leader in External Threat Intelligence and Protection, delivers comprehensive protection and scalable orchestration of machine and human intelligence to secure organizations' public attack surface - protecting employees and customers from external digital threats. The ZeroFox Platform continuously monitors publicly available digital platforms to discover hidden threats and malicious cyber activity targeting your organization and its customers. It also proactively coordinates with network providers and hosts to take down threats and disrupt an attacker's entire infrastructure before it causes harm.
Using diverse data sources and artificial intelligence-based analysis, the ZeroFox Platform identifies and remediates targeted threats that abound public platforms. ZeroFox continuously monitors for emerging threats, instantly alerts security teams and authorities upon attack initiation and automatically takes swift corrective actions ranging from offending content moderation to the comprehensive disruption of adversary attack infrastructure.
Additionally, ZeroFox threat researchers curate findings and provide a steady stream of relevant reports, context and analysis to satisfy your priority intelligence requirements. If compromise does occur, our dark web operatives facilitate direct attacker engagement to investigate emerging threats, reacquire assets and negotiate settlements.

The ZeroFox Platform
The ZeroFox Platform is an easy to deploy, always-on, cloud-based digital risk protection and full-spectrum threat intelligence solution giving organizations comprehensive visibility and protection across the surface, deep and dark web.
The ZeroFox Platform delivers automated threat detection and remediation across a broad set of continuously evolving data sources. ZeroFox identifies organizational risks and security threats targeting both businesses and employees. Using a combination of AI-based technologies and human threat analysts to identify threats and curate alerts, the ZeroFox Platform automatically identifies and takes remediation actions to resolve fraudulent accounts, phishing/smishing attacks, customer scams, exposed PII and compromised credentials, physical security threats and more.
The ZeroFox Platform Enables
Omnichannel Visibility Safeguard your enterprise from dynamic security risks across the industry's broadest range of public platforms including the surface, deep and dark web, social media, mobile apps, code share repositories, email and collaboration platforms and much more. Have confidence that if a new threat is out there, you'll see it first.
AI-Enabled Threat Discovery Using machine learning techniques and artificial intelligencebased analysis achieved at unprecedented scale, the ZeroFox Platform automatically identifies hidden threats that evade detection within objects, images and video and remediates targeted phishing attacks, credential compromise, data theft, impersonations, brand hijacking, executive and location threats and more.
Full-Spectrum Threat Intelligence & Threat Hunting Enrich traditional security programs with intelligence uniquely focused on social media and digital vulnerabilities and threats across the surface, deep and dark web. ZeroFox provides in-platform threat hunting via a petabyte-sized data lake of curated intelligence along with a team of threat researchers, analysts and dark web operatives that augment your team to tackle the scale and sophistication of external threats.
Automated Takedowns & Comprehensive Adversary Disruption ZeroFox provides comprehensive takedown services to directly address threats, including hiding, blocking and removing malicious or offending content, removing fake accounts and sites and enforcing service terms. ZeroFox goes further to block attackers by disabling their infrastructure in partnership with our Global Disruption Network (GDN).

PROTECT

Your Assets Beyond the Perimeter

Emerging Threats
PREDICT with Full Spectrum
Intelligence

DISRUPT

Attacks & Dismantle Adversary Infrastructure

3

OVERVIEW

DIGITAL RISK PROTECTION

Protect Assets Beyond The Perimeter

Protection only works if it is specific to you. You must address and focus your protection efforts on the risks and threats you face every day. ZeroFox starts by defining the assets that matter most to your organization-- your brands, employees, executives and VIPs, products, locations and corporate pages.

These assets are composed of a variety of various "objects" such as profiles, names, keywords, images, domains, hashtags and more. This governs how and where ZeroFox gathers data; ensuring what is ingested is only the data that is relevant to your organization. During the onboarding process, our team of launch specialists help to correctly configure and personalize the platform instance to your specifications.

Brand Protection
Monitor for brand/sub-brand and organizational threats across all data sources of surface, deep and dark web. This includes brand impersonations, mentions or breach evidence of an organization's assets/data such as data leakage, credential compromise, credit cards and other PII or proprietary data.
Advanced Domain & Phishing Protection
ZeroFox continuously monitors and processes hundreds of millions of websites across the web and identifies abuse across known and new phishing URLs/registrations, regardless of whether they are hosted on domains or subdomains that include relevant terms to your organization. Additionally, ZeroFox monitors for stolen website code and phishing data feeds and through the collection of hosted content, ZeroFox alerts you if your logo, brand terms, or facial detected imagery are included as part of any hosted phishing content.
Executive Protection
Protect VIPs against account takeovers (ATOs), impersonations, sensitive information leakage, doxxing, credential compromise, physical and cyber-threats. Executive Protection includes protection for high-profile executives, employees and VIPs and associated individual social accounts.
Product & Counterfeit Protection
Secure your brand's key physical deliverables, software, digital works, service and intellectual property. ZeroFox provides protection for product-related brand abuse, fraud, piracy and counterfeit goods.

Attack Surface & Vulnerability Protection
Alert for system vulnerabilities to proactively prevent and mitigate breaches, data leaks, compromised credentials and other threats that put the organization at risk. Discover exposed IT and cloud assets including external "outside the firewall" and scannable resources (servers, web hosts, cloudbased containers, etc.) and check for vulnerabilities such as default passwords, open ports, misconfigurations, expired certificates and other unsecure settings.
VIP Executive Security
Monitor digital channels and real-world events that endanger the personal safety for very high-profile individuals. Provide a VIP protection service that specializes in threat assessments, 24x7 monitoring, alerting and escalation, vetting of physical security threats, coverage for immediate family members and more.
Corporate Social Account Protection
Provide governance and security for administered corporate or organizational social media accounts and pages. Prevent account hacking and hijacking attempts and enable inline content moderation for removing offensive or inappropriate content postings.
Deep & Dark Web Monitoring & Protection
Continuously monitor new data sets to detect new information on the dark web and provide wide coverage over unindexed digital channels. Gain visibility over compromised credentials and other sensitive information, uncover sensitive data leaks and gain insight into threat actor tactics and attack planning.

4

OVERVIEW

Physical Security Intelligence (PSI)
Be informed in near real-time with instantaneous alert notifications for live, occurring global incidents that threaten the physical security of your executives, team members, facilities, etc. ZeroFox's 24/7 Physical Security SOC team continuously researches and validates events that pose an immediate public safety risk or disruption (such as shootings, protests, natural disasters, travel advisories, etc.), from various disparate HUMINT and OSINT sources across the surface, deep and dark web.
Email Abuse & Phishing Protection
Enhance organizational protection and detect brand abuses leveraging existing information such as DMARC failure reports and forwarded `abuse@.....' emails. This works in concert with standard anti-spam, antivirus and mail filtering gateways intended to protect users and message content.
Location & Event Protection
Provide protection for location assets, such as headquarters, manufacturing facilities, distribution and storage warehouses, offices and stores, homes and temporary destinations against travel-related mentions, physical and location-based threats. Additionally, gain situational awareness and early warning of attack planning, public safety incidents or nearby threats to your locations and events.
Business Email Compromise (BEC) Protection
Analyze inboxes to identify malicious emails stemming from BEC attacks, flagging malicious emails through banner warnings and remediating malicious domains hosting attacker email addresses to keep your employees and customers protected.
Remote Workforce Protection
Monitor chats and attendee lists for signs of malicious or inappropriate activity to ensure secure video conferencing for employees, customers and partners. ZeroFox for Slack protects your internal and external collaboration teams by identifying and remediating malicious, inappropriate or confidential content posted in your Slack channels.
Supply Chain Protection
ZeroFox goes above and beyond to secure your supply chain's entire ecosystem. Monitor, alert and remediate on third-party risks, threats and attacks that may impact your supply chain assets such as partner-owned domains, brands, executives, etc.

External Social and Digital Threats
 Compromised Credentials  Identity Theft & PII  Inappropriate Content Use  Emerging Threats  Covert Attack Planning & Chatter  Account Takeover (ATO)  Data Loss  Compliance Violations  Phishing Kits  Domain Typosquatting  Executive Impersonations  Fraud, Piracy & Scams  Brand Impersonations  Violence Threats  Exploitation of External Vulnerabilities  Physical Threats  Insider Threats  Travel Threats  Spoofed Accounts & Domains  Phishing/Smishing/Vishing, Malware & Malicious Links

5

OVERVIEW

USE CASES
ZeroFox provides information security, corporate security and brand protection teams with the critical visibility, intelligence and automated response necessary to safeguard against:

Targeted Phishing & Malware
Attackers use shortened or obfuscated URLs as the primary attack delivery mechanism, exploiting social media to bypass security measures and target both your employees and customers. Other domain phishing tactics include domain squatting and typosquatting/homoglyph attacks. Identify and remediate malicious URLs in your social media environment.

Covert Attack Planning & Chatter
Threat actors often leverage covert channels and unindexed sites across the deep and dark web to plan, coordinate and discuss upcoming attacks. Cut through the noise and pinpoint attack chatter that mentions your protected brands, executives and assets and automatically detect covert communications that indicate malicious intent or sentiment.

Ransomware
Address early indicators of ransomware attacks -- from early warning of credentials on the dark web to direct engagement with bad actors within the criminal underground. Additionally, work with an intermediary to negotiate asset reacquisition or crypto payments when necessary.
Account Compromise
Social media accounts are trusted sources of corporate information, yet unlike websites, they lack security and protection beyond a simple password. Be alerted to any suspicious behavior or posts and block all outgoing content from the compromised account.
Executive & Corporate Threats
Executives and corporate assets are exposed to risks on the dark web and even on social media, such as doxxing, lost PII, physical threats and exposed travel details. Monitor executive and corporate accounts and the digital world for malicious activity, threats or sensitive content.
Impersonating Brand & Executive Accounts
Fraudulent and spoofed accounts leverage the implied trust on social media, email and legitimate websites to launch phishing attacks, perpetrate scams and damage brands. Identify and remove accounts, email addresses and domains impersonating your brand or people.
Compromised Credentials & Information Leakage
After attackers steal employee credentials and corporate information, they advertise, sell and distribute this sensitive data on the deep and dark web. ZeroFox scans these channels to identify where this data or other sensitive company IP has been exposed.
Customer Fraud & Scams
Whether financial fraud, billing scams or fake offers, social media and digital platforms expose your customers and brand reputation to exploitation. Identify malicious activity, mitigating the costs around remediation, customer support and lost business.

Piracy & Counterfeit Goods
Fake or stolen content shared on marketplaces, dark web markets and promoted on social media can seriously undermine your organization's bottom line. Automatically identify proprietary content, posted intentionally or not, circulating on social media.
External Vulnerability Risks
Threat actors often seek to exploit external vulnerabilities and exposed cloud assets that exist outside the firewall. This opens the door to risk of breaches, data leaks, phishing attacks, etc. Identify and check for exposed IT and cloud assets.
Physical & Cyber Situational Awareness
Adversaries, both physical and digital, frequently telegraph their intentions on the internet. Monitor for organization-specific keyphrases and terms, alerting you to malicious chatter about your organization or posts within a specific geography.
Global Physical Security Risks
Real-world incidents and events can often threaten the physical security of key executives, locations and their respective organizations. Stay on top of public safety incidents and disruptions in your geography and be alerted of events that threaten the safety of your worksites and people.
Compliance & Corporate Page Risks
Trolls, spammers, competitors, cybercriminals and unwitting customers post malicious, offensive or sensitive content to corporate pages. Immediately block, hide or remove undesirable content, such as slurs, credit cards numbers, scams and phishing links.
Insider Threats
The risk of an insider threat ranges from disgruntled employees absconding with sensitive data to staff posting noncompliant content on social media or on collaboration tools to threats both physical and cyber. Identify damaging activity unique to your organization, both inside and out.
6

OVERVIEW

FULL-SPECTRUM THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Predict Emerging Threats
ZeroFox provides complete threat intelligence on modern adversaries, external attacks and their digital indicators that traditional threat intelligence providers lack. The combination of the ZeroFox AI-powered platform, robust threat intelligence data lake and expansive human dark web intelligence capabilities offers comprehensive automated protection and intelligence for organizations of all sizes. Transform raw data into actionable intelligence - while also providing the ability to action it on your behalf - to increase security team efficiency and effectiveness.

GLOBAL INTELLIGENCE TYPES
Dark Web Intelligence
Access deep and dark web data that helps you identify exposed or stolen credentials, PII, IP and more before it's weaponized and directed at your organization.
Vulnerability Intelligence
Track the latest vulnerabilities being released publicly by vendors. Monitor vulnerabilities and exploits being prioritized by the security research and adversary communities.
Brand Intelligence
Identify fraudulent domains, executive impersonations, phishing and other risks across the public attack surface that put your brand at risk.
Physical Security Intelligence
Monitor events or policies affecting specific geographic areas of operation or specific executives. Track TTPs affecting cybersecurity and physical posture.
Fraud Intelligence
Find data sets, websites, tools, fraud specialists and their TTPs and social engineering methods aimed at undermining your business and clients
Third Party Intelligence
Scope potential risk of vendors and partner companies in your supply chain across the threat intelligence spectrum.
Internet Infrastructure Intelligence
Distinguish between legitimate and suspicious providers for domains and hosting/VPS infrastructure. Find current infrastructure exploits and TTPs, suspicious hosts, IPs and domains used in attacks.

Geopolitical Intelligence
Gain insight into risks posed to your organization or operations from a particular region in the world, including political, cultural, regulatory, health and other related topics.
Malware & Ransomware Intelligence
Quickly track down malware, adversaries and TTPs being used to gain access, escalate, exfiltrate and ransom your organization.
Strategic Intelligence
Track geopolitical events, social, health and economic indicators to inform long-term decision-making.

7

OVERVIEW

GLOBAL INTELLIGENCE REPORTS & DELIVERABLES
Breaking News
ZeroFox's threat researchers curate and contextualize relevant breaking news stories, delivering them to users directly within the ZeroFox Platform as well as to your email inbox via the ZeroFox Daily Threat Report.
Custom Threat Analysis
Address persistent digital threats and access in-depth threat research and investigations. Our team of expert analysts provide access to custom threat research and in-depth threat investigations based on your organization's unique threats, business cases, new, incoming investigation requests and/or persistent issues.
Advisories
New publications throughout the week ensure your security team remains up to date on the latest threat actors and campaigns. Advisories include data breach notifications, targeted attacks, research reports and more.
Strategic Intelligence Reporting
Leverage periodic cyber intelligence reports and research that lend insight into security policy, planning, implementation and ongoing operations. Our targeted research enables more effective policy and compliance decisions, increases security hardening capabilities and improves ongoing security operations.

THREAT HUNTING MODULE
The ZeroFox Threat Hunting Module provides threat intelligence analysts unlimited search access into the complete threat intelligence data lake from within the ZeroFox Platform. Provide the ability to search ZeroFox's extensive data lake and retrieve all threat intelligence related to search terms. Easily search across: intelligence and vulnerability feeds of curated, finished intelligence and associated IoCs for Command & Control (C2), covert communication channels, compromised credentials, etc.

Resources to Fight Back

200+
Global Team of
Intelligence Reserachers
and analysts

50+
Dark Web Operative
Personas Engaged in
Criminal Underground

15+
Years Average
Experiance

30+
Languages
Covered

GLOBAL INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION
ZeroFox provides comprehensive, "outside the firewall" threat intelligence for the digital business platforms you depend on. We offer automated and human intelligence collection for protected assets from all relevant OSINT (Surface) and Deep/ Dark Web data sources. This provides the ability to surface and address threats early before damage can be done.
ZeroFox covers a broad range of data sources, from social networks and domain registrations, email, to surface, deep and dark web sites, forums and marketplaces. As new threats emerge, we continue to expand our coverage and capabilities to meet the needs of the market.
ZeroFox is committed to full transparency surrounding data source coverage. The ZeroFox Global Intelligence Collection framework digests billions of pieces of social and digital content and ensures that protected entities are streamed in near real-time. ZeroFox leverages the networks' APIs for data ingestion, ensuring timely and the most accurate data possible.

8

OVERVIEW

DATA SOURCE COVERAGE
ZeroFox's data source* coverage includes but is not limited to:
 Regional and international social media networks  Deep and dark web  Paste and code share sites  Covert communication channels  Web domains  Email  Surface web sites and advanced web searches  Web marketplaces  Forums, blogs and review sites  RSS Feeds  Breaking news  Mobile app stores  Vulnerabilities  Breaches  Collaboration platforms  Network scanning of IPs and hostnames
*You can access our fully updated and comprehensive list of sources directly within the ZeroFox Platform.

DISCOVERY TOOL
Using the Discovery capability, you can search across social networks and the social web (forums and paste sites), all from a single console. From the Discovery page, analysts can map their organization's social media footprint, find new profiles for protection, whitelist valid accounts, look for rogue accounts, identify adversary profiles, search for stolen information or investigate attacks being planned.

ONWATCHTM MANAGED THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Every ZeroFox customer is fully managed by our world-class team of threat experts, saving your security team time and resources. Whether it's triaging alerts in the ZeroFox Platform, accessing pooled intelligence resources, or leveraging a fully dedicated analyst - you can rely on enhanced, hands-on protection and threat intelligence experts who help ensure optimal protection and satisfy your unique requirements.

OnWatchTM Alert
Extend digital visibility and protection with ZeroFox OnWatchTM Alert. Our team of global SOC first-line threat experts provide 24x7x365 managed services to review, triage and escalate incidents and prioritize threats on your behalf. Protect your organization from social and digital threats while maximizing the value of the ZeroFox Platform - all while getting back more time in your day.

OnWatchTM Insight
ZeroFox OnWatchTM Insight enhances understanding of threats with contextual research and expertise. Gain access to pooled threat intelligence analysts that provide in-depth threat analysis, insights, reports and finished intelligence relevant to your organization and industry. Complement ZeroFox's AI-powered platform with expert human analysis to contextualize threats to your business, executives, assets and data.

OnWatchTM Expert
ZeroFox OnWatchTM Expert service provides a dedicated, named analyst who performs as a key member of your security operations team. Rely on an experienced security intelligence analyst who provides expert threat hunting, support for over 30 languages, routine threat reporting and regular executive briefings. Our analysts access the world's most historically accurate data lake of threat indicators and attack data, including unique data from embedded dark web operatives.

9

OVERVIEW

Choose the OnWatchTM Service Tier That's Right For Your Organization
Global, 24x7 Expertise and Managed Service Level 1Alert Triage, Validation, Routing and Escalation 24x7 Customer and Platform Support Initial Onboard/Setup and Expert Configuration, Tuning, Platform Optimization and Consultation Customer Workflow Design and Online, On-Demand Access to ZeroFox University RFI Research, Analysis and Alert Context Inquiries
Alert Curation and Analysis
Access to Pooled Threat Intelligence Analysts Strategic Finished Intelligence (Geopolitical, Industry, Global Threats), Weekly Threat Intelligence and Monthly Threat Assessment Reports Daily Threat Intelligence Brief, Quarterly Threat Intelligence Executive Briefing and Proactive Threat Hunting Access to Dedicated Senior Threat Intelligence Analysts (half- or full-time)
Language Support

OnWatchTM Alert

OnWatchTM Insight

OnWatchTM Expert

4 Reach Backs/mo. Limited

Unlimited RFIs Advanced

English-only

English-only

30+ Languages

ONDEMAND INVESTIGATIONS & DARK OPERATIONS
Gain access to teams of highly skilled intelligence analysts and researchers with experience conducting specialized risk assessments and investigations. Additionally, leverage deeply embedded dark web operatives who engage with adversaries, triage threats and curate intelligence specific to you.

OnDemand Investigations & Incident Support
Threats to physical and digital assets are escalating in scale and sophistication. Most organizations don't have the tools, personnel, or time to keep up, but your organization's success still rests on your ability to accurately assess and respond. ZeroFox's OnDemand Investigation and Incident Support provides highly-skilled intelligence analysts who deliver deep-dive reports, technical cybersecurity analysis, threat assessments, research projects and as-requested analytic projects tailored to your organization.
Gain in-depth analysis on adversaries, campaigns, targets, red teaming on your behalf and attack surface assessments and reporting according to your SIRs, PIRs and RFIs.

Dark Ops Investigation & Engagement
Go deeper into the cybercriminal underground with ZeroFox's dark web threat intelligence. Our analysts work with dark web operatives to investigate and identify exposed credentials, Personally Identifiable Information (PII), intellectual property, social and Active Directory (AD) accounts available for sale on the dark web. If there are specific RFI needs, we will fulfill those as well.
Additionally, ZeroFox leverages deeply embedded dark web operatives with exclusive connections into underground communities to help you recover assets, negotiate pricing and acquire specific compromised material. Gain access to Dark Ops operatives and research when you need it. Services, reports and assessments are available via subscription and on-demand.

10

OVERVIEW

REMEDIATION & DISRUPTION
Disrupt Attacks & Dismantle Attacker Infrastructure

TAKEDOWN-AS-A-SERVICE
ZeroFox saves you from the manual, costly and arduous process of finding and taking down malicious profiles and dangerous posts, working on your behalf to package and report directly to the source provider for removal. ZeroFox maintains the most effective and broadest automated takedown capabilities of any security vendor across a wide range of data sources including social media, web, deep and dark, domains and more, saving you time and resources.
 Identify and alert on risks: Real-time alerts are generated as the platform identifies risks. With each alert, our team of experts analyzes and escalates based on identified risk, context and adversary details
 Remediate and remove threats: ZeroFox works on your behalf to directly remove content, profiles and accounts that violate the terms of service of the digital platforms. ZeroFox ensures that all remediation is done without you ever lifting a finger
 Hide offensive comments: ZeroFox can quickly identify and hide comments and posts intended to hurt brand reputation or impersonate the organization. Hiding comments and posts on owned accounts makes them invisible to the public without notifying the original poster or fully removing the content
 Block malicious profiles: Quickly stop malicious profiles from posting to owned pages by blocking these fraudulent accounts. Blocking prevents bad actors from interacting and engaging with the brand and business online
 Delete harmful content: ZeroFox helps you remove comments, posts and profiles that violate terms of service and threaten brand reputation across digital channels

Disruption at Scale

>700 >150,000
97%

Global disruption partners and growing
Average per quarter successful takedowns
Average killchain takedown rate

ADVERSARY DISRUPTION
Go beyond reactive, one-off takedowns and take continuous, decisive actions to stop adversaries from launching future attacks. ZeroFox automatically correlates and operationalizes threat data collected from a large customer community and shares with third-party partner providers to effectively disrupt and dismantle a threat actor's entire attack infrastructure.
 Detect and monitor the warning signs of an attack and shut down the first contact at every turn by using the following tactics:
 Denylist submission for Google Safe Browsing, VirusTotal, Anti-Phishing Working Group, etc.
 Automated submission to major registrars, hosting providers, cloud front end providers and more
 Data correlation from passive DNS & Phish Kit analysis to pivot on larger infrastructure of campaign
 Get in-platform visibility over disruption actions taken against an offending domain phishing attack (such as the distribution of IOCs to the Global Disruption Network) along with additional status and contextual information such as sending takedown requests to hosts, registrars, etc.

GLOBAL DISRUPTION NETWORK (GDN)
The Global Disruption Network (GDN) is a distribution network that provides the rapid delivery of malicious URLs and indicators to 3rd-party providers with the capability to disrupt the malicious activity prior to being fully removed. ZeroFox uses a dedicated API endpoint to distribute the known malicious URLs and IOCs to approximately one hundred of the world's largest digital providers including ISPs, CDNS, Hosts, Registrars, Endpoint Security providers and many more.

Takedowns

Disruption

1.9 Days Median 13.1 Days Avg

Real-Time

Adversary Disruption works in real-time, significantly speeding up time to remediation and proactively blocking future attacks.
11

OVERVIEW

App Library & Integrations
INTEGRATED THREAT INTELLIGENCE FEED
ZeroFox monitors threat actor chatter for sale of personal information, specifically compromised credentials and credit cards from deep and dark web sources via an API connected threat feed.
ZEROFOX APP CONNECTOR
The ZeroFox App Connector provides platform alert and threat intelligence IoC feeds and integrations to other security tools such as Splunk, SIEMs, TIPs, SOARs. Leverage available partner applications to better streamline your response to external threats through effective threat intelligence enrichment, alert orchestration and incident remediation.

ZEROFOX APP LIBRARY
Effective security programs require integrated solutions. Connect your enterprise with ZeroFox to enable integrated threat intelligence. Access 700+ data sources, disruption and technology apps, extensible REST APIs and pre-built connectors for the tools you've already deployed.
View the ZeroFox App Library here: zerofox.com/app-library/.
The ZeroFox Platform Connects With:  Existing SOC (TIP, SOAR, SIEM, Infrastructure, etc.)  Analytics & Investigation Tools  Collaboration Providers  Collection Providers  Threat Disruption Providers  Identity & SSO Applications  Protection  Orchestration & ITSM Tools  Protection Applications  Vulnerability & Risk Applications

12

OVERVIEW

AI Analysis & Platform Capabilities

AI-DRIVEN ANALYSIS
Dramatically reduce your risk exposure with AI-driven analytics and custom rules designed to eliminate costly, time-intensive threat hunting, manual remediation and coverage gaps that leave you exposed. ZeroFox's AI capabilities consist of machine learning, computer vision and facial comparison to detect threats in text, image and video beyond traditional security solutions. Leverage the power of AI technologies to stay informed of critical threats with access in the office or via mobile device using the ZeroFox mobile app.
ALERTS
Once entities have been configured and policies established, ZeroFox begins constantly identifying any new violations and triggering alerts. Bulk alerts are displayed in an easily filterable alerts table, allowing you to sort by risk rating, impacted entity, type of threat, timestamp, social network and much more. Each alert contains the content of the offending post or profile, threat metadata, adversary intelligence, alert logs and the ability to take action on the alert, including assigning the alert, emailing the alert, whitelisting the adversary and issuing a takedown of the content. All of this alert data, as well as additional enriched metadata, is available via API for organizations to pass into their existing security infrastructure.
FOXSCRIPTS - CUSTOM ANALYSIS
FoxScript, a part of the ZeroFox Platform, is a JavaScript-based language that opens the power of ZeroFox's data collection and analysis engines to virtually any use case. This fine-tuning capability means each organization can regulate the volume of their alerts, ensure only the most critical information is passed to the security analysts and avoid data overload.

DASHBOARD & ACCESS
The ZeroFox Dashboard provides an executive level summary of the overall state of an organization's digital risks and mitigation actions taken on behalf of the organization. The dashboard displays the total number of ingested and analyzed posts, profiles, URLs and images and gives an overarching look at the most critical alerts and most threatened entities. It also provides a summary of takedown metrics and recent advisories from ZeroFox researchers. Additionally, ZeroFox uses RoleBased Access Control (RBAC) for page visibility which enables the ability to hide or show certain pages based on existing users, user roles, or groups. This functionality helps to prevent numerous issues such as unauthorized users improperly making modifications to key platform configurations.
RULES & POLICIES
Once entities have been configured, you can determine what analyses to perform for each entity, based on the associated use cases (for example, a brand will have different requirements than an employee). ZeroFox's rule engine leverages a suite of artificial intelligence, machine learning and data science techniques to address both the massive volume of ingested data and the diversity of risks. You have full control over which policies are turned on and which policies apply to which entities. ZeroFox comes out of the box with hundreds of default rules for the most prevalent challenges on social media, including malicious links, impersonations accounts, violence, offensive content, compromised accounts, compliance violations (PCI, FFIEC, HIPAA, GDPR, etc), scams, PII and much more.
REPORTING
Robust, automated summary reports demonstrate key platform statistics that show the social media and digital footprint analyzed, major threats identified and remediations implemented by the ZeroFox Platform. In addition, ZeroFox provides tools and reports to export platform data for custom analysis and input into other systems.

13

OVERVIEW

Customer Success

Get Started With ZeroFox

LAUNCH & IMPLEMENTATION
ZeroFox's expert Launch team ensures your platform is set up for continued success. Our high-touch launch program makes sure your protection is precisely configured to your organization's specific needs.
MANAGED, TECHNICAL & PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
ZeroFox provides a wide variety of flexible and tailored services to help you assess, analyze and reduce your organization's digital risk. Our team of experts can help build integrations, tune, optimize and configure the platform and enhance your overall platform experience.
ZEROFOX UNIVERSITY
ZeroFox offers training programs, both technical and nontechnical, to ensure you and your team get the most out of your ZeroFox Platform investment. Users can tap into this professional-grade certification to better protect their organization and grow their career.

1 Decide What's Important Tune the platform to collect data relevant to your organization by configuring your entities, or go deeper to investigate what's important by tapping into ZeroFox's massive and historically complete threat intelligence data lake.
2 Define Your Policies Tweak which out-of-the-box rules and policies are enabled for the things you want to protect. In addition, ZeroFox gives you full access to write your own custom FoxScript rules, enabling organization-specific use cases.
3 Extend Your Team Maximize team resources by leveraging an elite global threat intelligence service team for research, investigations, analysis, reports, dark ops engagement, etc.
4 Receive Alerts on Risks Automatically receive real-time alerts as the platform identifies risks. Each alert comes packaged with contextualized threat intelligence, alert logs, perpetrator intelligence and remediation actions.
5 Remediate Malicious Content & Disrupt Attacks Issue and track takedown requests from within the platform. ZeroFox works on your behalf to remove threatening content while also automating distribution of malicious URLs and indicators to 3rd-party providers for the purposes of blocking and dismantling attacker infrastructure.
6 Integrate Data in Your Environment Leverage one of ZeroFox's hundreds of existing integrations or tap into ZeroFox's RESTful APIs to pull in alert data into your existing security environment and push remediation actions back through the platform.

14

OVERVIEW
The ZeroFox Platform delivers comprehensive external cybersecurity to protect your assets beyond the perimeter. Effectively predict emerging threats, disrupt attacks and dismantle adversary infrastructure.
ABOUT ZEROFOX
ZeroFox, the leader in External Threat Intelligence and Protection, provides enterprises protection, intelligence and disruption to dismantle external threats to brands, people, assets and data across the public attack surface in one, comprehensive platform. With complete global coverage across the surface, deep and dark web and an Intel-backed artificial intelligence-based analysis engine, the ZeroFox Platform identifies and remediates targeted phishing attacks, credential compromise, data exfiltration, brand hijacking, executive and location threats and more. The patented ZeroFox Platform technology processes and protects millions of posts, messages and accounts daily across the public attack surface, spanning the surface, deep and dark web, domains, social media, mobile app stores, cloudbased email and more.
CONTACT US: (855) 736-1400 | SALES@ZEROFOX.COM | ZEROFOX.COM
 2021 ZeroFox Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. OCT2021_V6

