ZeroFox External Cybersecurity Platform
Protect your external digital assets and data from threats at the scale and speed of the internet.

OVERVIEW

Protecting You Beyond the Perimeter
Many of today's digital platforms are largely ungoverned, unmonitored and unprotected across the vast public attack surface. The ZeroFox Platform allows security teams to expand protection beyond their perimeter to comprehensively secure their entire attack surface and safeguard against digital threats permeating social media, surface web, and deep/dark web channels.
ZeroFox can help you to outsmart bad actors at every turn. Using a vast set of data sources, powerful AI-driven analysis, and a team of expert threat researchers, the ZeroFox Platform automatically identifies targeted phishing attacks, credential compromise, data theft, impersonations, brand hijacking and whatever else the web throws at you. Additionally, ZeroFox instantly alerts security teams and authorities at the first sign of attack and automatically takes swift actions ranging from taking down malicious content to dismantling attacker infrastructure.

Immediate Time To Value
Expand Visibility Over External Digital Threats Leverage AI-driven technologies and comprehensive global intelligence collection to immediately identify, remediate, and mitigate threats before they compromise your network.
Combine Expertise with Integrated Threat Hunting Enrich traditional security programs with analystcurated threat intelligence and conduct deep-dive investigations tapping petabytes of unique threat intelligence data lakes.
Remediate Threats and Disrupt Attacks at Scale Significantly reduce time spent identifying, investigating and mitigating threats via automated remediation, integrated takedowns and proactive disruption actions.

Comprehensive Digital Risk Protection

Managed Protection Protect your brand, executives, domains and data against phishing, impersonations and credential theft.

Full-Spectrum Threat Intelligence Access finished and actionable intelligence at a global scale, curated for you by our team of 200+ threat analysts.

Adversary Disruption Dismantle attacker infrastructure to remediate threats quickly and prevent your organization from becoming the next target.

855.736.1400 | sales@zerofox.com | zerofox.com

© 2021 ZeroFox Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.

| Overview

Digital Risk Protection Solutions
Brand Protection Protect your digital presence, owned assets and accounts, logos and trademarks against account hacking, impersonations, malicious content and reputation damage.
Web & Domain Protection Protect your owned domains/subdomains through continuous identification and remediation of impersonating domains, trademark infringement, and spoofing.
Deep & Dark Web Protection Gain visibility into dark web forums to uncover data leakage, compromised credentials and attack chatter.
Executive Protection & VIP Security Protect executives against account takeovers, impersonations and targeted attacks and minimize physical security risks.

Attack Surface & Vulnerability Protection Proactively identify, assess, and alert for risky external security vulnerabilities that exist outside the firewall.
Product & Counterfeit Protection Protect your products against counterfeits, unauthorized use or resale, impersonations and reputation damage.
Location & Event Protection Protect location assets, such as headquarters, manufacturing facilities, etc., from cyber and physical threats with real-time situational awareness.
Remote Workplace Protection Provide protection across email, collaboration tools and video conferencing to stop threats targeting your employees, customers and partners.

ZeroFox delivers Full-Spectrum Threat Intelligence, continuously collecting intelligence from digital platforms across the globe.

855.736.1400 | sales@zerofox.com | zerofox.com

© 2021 ZeroFOX Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.

| Overview

Full Spectrum Threat Intelligence
Dark Web Intelligence Access deep and dark web data that helps you identify exposed or stolen credentials, PII, IP, and more before it's weaponized and directed at your organization.
Brand Intelligence Identify fraudulent domains, executive impersonations, phishing and other risks across the public attack surface that put your brand at risk.
Fraud Intelligence Find data sets, websites, tools, fraud specialists and their TTPs, and social engineering methods aimed at undermining your business and clients.
Internet Infrastructure Intelligence Distinguish between legitimate and suspicious providers for domains and hosting/VPS infrastructure. Find current infrastructure exploits and TTPs, suspicious hosts, IPs and domains used in attacks.
Malware & Ransomware Intelligence Quickly track down malware, adversaries and TTPs being used to gain access, escalate, exfiltrate and ransom your organization.

Vulnerability Intelligence Track the latest vulnerabilities being released publicly by vendors. Monitor vulnerabilities and exploits being prioritized by the security research and adversary communities.
Physical Security Intelligence Monitor events or policies affecting specific geographic areas of operation or specific executives. Track TTPs affecting cybersecurity and physical posture.
Geopolitical Intelligence Gain contextual insight into political strife, pandemic status and health issues, terror risks, refugee displacement and related topics in different geographies
Third Party Intelligence Gain contextual insight into political strife, pandemic status and health issues, terror risks, refugee displacement and related topics in different geographies.
Strategic Intelligence Track geopolitical events, social, health, and economic indicators to inform long-term decision-making.

Automated Takedowns & Adversary Disruption
Resolve security incidents and disrupt adversaries quickly. Take down fraudulent content, accounts and sites across thousands of networks and block access to adversary infrastructure. ZeroFox executes hundreds of disruption actions upon every validated threat leveraging our Global Disruption Network of partner ISPs, Hosts, Registrars, CDNs, Telcos and more - who take immediate action to halt attacks in their tracks.

READY TO SEE FOR YOURSELF?
Request a Demo Sign up on zerofox.com/request-a-demo/
Learn More Visit zerofox.com Contact us sales@zerofox.com / 855.736.1400

ABOUT ZEROFOX
ZeroFox provides enterprises protection, intelligence and disruption to dismantle external threats to brands, people, assets and data across the public attack surface in one, comprehensive platform. ZeroFox combines advanced AI, expert human intelligence services to detect and analyze complex, targeted threats, and automated disruption services to neutralize attacker infrastructure.

855.736.1400 | sales@zerofox.com | zerofox.com

© 2021 ZeroFOX Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. SEP2021_V1

