APEC Telecommunications and Information Working Group's Operation;

DAN CHANG, PH.D. 

Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is a forum for 21 Pacific Rim member economies.
Members account for approximately 40% of the world's population, approximately 57% of the world's gross domestic product and about 49% of world trade.

APEC Working Groups
In addition to Telecommunications and Information working group, the following working groups are also relevant to our audiences: Policy Partnership on Science, Technology and Innovation (PPSTI) working group; Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) working group; Counter-Terrorism Working Group.

Telecommunications and Information working Group 
Taiwan's responsible agency:  (NCC).
Liberalization Steering Group, LSG ();
ICT Development Steering Group, DSG ();
Security and Prosperity Steering Group, SPSG ().

A few milestones at APEC Telecommunication Working Group (I)
China is not an excuse for no diplomatic breakthrough.
Tel 34, Auckland, New Zealand, Oct. 2006: met minister of communication.
Tel 35, Manila, Philippine, April 2007; only one signed up for the meeting one month before the meeting and was treated as a head of delegate; had meal with new chair.
Tel 36, Santiago, Chile, October 2007: Became a Deputy Convenor; brought one proposal to the meeting and overcame criticisms from China and Canada.
Tel 37, Tokyo, Japan, March 2008: Elected as a Convenor of IC Technologies Development Steering Group; Competing with Peru's Deputy Minister. He became my Deputy.

One qualification to get elected: Stop US/USSR underground nuclear Test (I)
Threshold Test Ban Treaty(TTBT) Signed by U.S.A. and Soviet Union in July 1974; Prohibit nuclear tests of devices having a yield exceeding 150 kilotons (of TNT); U.S. senate would not ratified because it was unable to verify the yield before CORRTEX. Develop Technology to accurately measure the underground nuclear test yield.

One qualification to get elected: Stop US/USSR underground nuclear Test (II)
U.S. Senate ratified the treaty in 1990 by 98 vs. 0 votes. Treaty became effective on December 11, 1990. Last underground nuclear test: Soviet in 1991; U.S. in 1992.

A few milestones at APEC Telecommunication Working Group (II)
Telmin 7 (Ministers' meeting), Bangkok, Thailand, April, 2008: Established a goal of achieving universal Internet access to broadband by 2015 on Minister's Declaration.
Tel 38, Lima, Peru, October, 2008: Only officer to hike up Machu Picchu ( 2500 meters above sea level, New Seven Wonders of the World).
Tel 39, Singapore, April 2009. On the business meeting, I was arranged to seat at the head table.
Tel 40, Cancun, Mexico, Sept. 2009: APEC Director requested Taiwan to host next APEC TEL meeting.
Tel 41 was held in Taipei, Taiwan, May, 2010. Chair from China sang . We both attended a concert in honor of .

Telmin 7 Senior Officer's meeting

Telmin 7 Senior Officers

APEC TEL's Some Major Accomplishments
Bridged the Digital Divide: Tripling Internet Access from 2000 base. Goal was set at 2005, but accomplished in 2008. May, 2008: Interviewed and discussed "Reducing Digital Divide" in APEC's e-Newsletter. This interview highlighted Taiwan's unique contributions to APEC including the establishment of several APEC Digital Opportunity Centers in developing economies. Drafted Telecommunications and Information Industry (TELMIN7) Ministers Declaration: Established the ambitious goal of achieving universal access to broadband by 2015. 2008 Leaders' Declaration : welcomed the Digital Prosperity Checklist to promote growth the use and development of ICT. IPV6; Cloud.

Chair APEC's working group

Side stories
Discussion with National security council ( ) member on APEC in 2008.
DPU in November 2005 organized an . WHO Hong Kong representative  agreed to attend. VP Liu decided to change schedule to mid- December. Many people can not attend. The conference was cancelled.  became WHO  afterward.
United Nation ID on Taiwan birth place.

APEC

