InfoSec  2001  ­  A  Career  Odyssey      The  Professional  Development  workshop  is  a  half--day  program  that  is  designed  to   inspire  the  Black  Hat  attendee  to  think  about  their  career  as  an  information  security   professional  and  assist  them  in  their  journey  towards  the  achievement  of  their  long   term  career  goals.          The  Professional  Development  workshop  will  be  divided  into  five  (5)  unique   information  security  career  topics  that  will  be  linked  by  a  common  theme  ­  Skill   Development  and  Differentiation.          The  program  will  consist  of  the  following:     
1)   "The  Value  of  Information  Security  Certifications  Survey"  ­  Research   Revealed  ­  1350  information  security  professionals  responded  to  an   independent  survey  on  the  topic  ­  the  research  will  be  revealed  
2) "Second  Place  Sucks"  ­  A  presentation  geared  toward  differentiating  yourself   from  your  peers  (and  your  competition)  
3) The  Information  Security  Leader  of  The  Future"  --    a  presentation  that  will   outline  the  skills  that  employers  are  looking  for  when  identifying  and   selecting  their  information  security  leaders.  
4) "The  Other  Side  of  The  Desk"  ­  a  panel  that  will  explore  the  different   attitudes  and  beliefs  by  job  applicant  and  employer  during  the  interview   process  
5) "Future  Predictions"  and  "Career  Advice  Tuesday--  Live"  --  Future  trends  will   be  discussed  and  explored  ­  and  attendees  will  have  the  opportunity  to  ask   questions  about  infosec  related  career  topics  
   The  workshop  is  designed  as  an  interactive  forum  that  should  inspire  some  shared   thought  and  debate  between  audience  members  and  the  presenters.              Attendees  should  understand  that  they  can  elect  to  either  participate  in  the  entire   workshop,  or  to  pick  and  choose  from  select  sessions  that  have  a  particular  interest   to  them.                                      

Session  Previews:   Session  1    --  1:45  ­  3:00      "The  Value  of  Information  Security  Certifications  Survey"     Presenters  --  Mike  Murray  and  Lee  Kushner  ­  Infosecleaders.com            In  February  of  2011,  Infosecleaders.com  launched  an  independent  survey  on  the   value  of  information  security  certifications.      The  value  of  InfoSec  certifications  is  a   highly  debated  topic  in  the  industry,  and  this  is  the  first  independent  survey  that   asks  questions  to  information  security  professionals  (certified  or  not)  ­  their   opinions  on  topics  that  include  ­  the  motivations  for  certifications,  the  impression  of   the  certification  bodies,  the  value  of  skills  vs.  certifications,  and  certifications  effect   on  employment.    With  over  1350  respondents,  the  results  should  be  revealing  and   eye--opening.          Second  Place  Sucks  --       Presenter  ­  Mike  Murray   So,  if  certifications  are  no  longer  the  magic  bullet  to  get  you  to  your  career  goals,   then  what  is.    The  topic  of  strategic  career  investments  and  personal  branding  will   be  the  focus  of  this  presentation.    The  presentation  will  be  spent  on  how  you  can   plan  and  execute  on  career  investment  strategies  that  will  enable  you  to   differentiate  from  your  peers  and  successfully  compete  for  promotions  and  external   information  security  leadership  opportunities.         (15  minute  break)      Session  2  --  3:15  ­  4:45PM        3:15  ­  3:45PM   "The  Information  Security  Leader  of  the  Future"  ­     Presenter  ­  Lee  Kushner      The  skills  for  information  security  leaders  are  changing  quite  rapidly.    As  many   companies  are  aligning  information  security  with  their  core  business  and  branding,   information  security  professionals  will  need  to  evolve  as  well.    The  presentation  will   break  down  the  core  skill  components  of  what  information  security  professional   will  need  to  acquire  and  demonstrate  to  be  considered  for  leadership  roles  in  the   future.      3:45PM  ­  4:45PM        The  Other  Side  of  the  Desk  ­  Different  Perspectives  on  the  Interview  Process               Moderator  ­  Mike  Murray  

Candidate  Perspective  ­  Lee  Kushner  

Hiring  Managers  Perspective  ­     Bill  Phelps,  Executive  Director  Accenture  

  

  

  

  

  

Justin  Somaini,  CISO  at  Yahoo!  

Abstract:  

  

There  are  two  parties  involved  in  every  interview  process,  the  information  security  

professional  (the  applicant)  and  the  hiring  manager  (the  decision  maker).      While  in  

essence,  both  parties  ultimately  desire  the  same  outcome,  their  motivations  lie  in  

different  places.      This  portion  of  the  presentation  will  present  to  the  audience  the  

perspective  of  the  candidate  and  the  perspective  of  the  hiring  manager,  in  a  way  that  

will  educate  both  parties  and  enable  them  to  social  engineer  the  interview  process,  

to  work  to  their  personal  advantage.  

  

Bill  Phelps:  

Bill  Phelps  is  an  Executive  Director  in  Accenture's  security  practice,  and  has  spent  

the  past  25  years  in  technology  services.    In  the  past  decade,  Bill  has  been  a  practice  

leader,  company  founder,  board  member  and  trusted  advisor  helping  organizations  

with  complex  management  and  technology  challenges  in  the  areas  of  information  

security,  data  center  transformation  and  technology  strategy.          Bill  currently  has  

overall  responsibility  for  Accenture's  security  business  in  North  America.    Bill  is  

aggressively  growing  Accenture's  security  team,  and  plans  to  hire  over  security  200  

professionals  in  the  coming  year.      

  

Justin  Somaini:  

Justin   Somaini   is   the   Chief   Information   Security   Officer   at   Yahoo!   where   he's  

responsible   for   all   aspects   of   Yahoo!'s   Information   Security   strategy.     With   over   15  

years   of   Information   Security   experience   he's   seen   as   a   leader   in   industry   by  

promoting   an   evolution   of   the   security   and   risk   management   models.     Through   his  

public  speaking  and  industry  involvement  he's  given  extensive  talks  and  interviews  

on   the   threat   landscape,   public   policy,   security   management   and   risk  

management.     Prior   to   joining   Yahoo!,   Justin   was   the   CISO   at   Symantec.     Justin   has  

also   held   security   leadership   roles   at   VeriSign,   Charles   Schwab   and  

PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP.  

  

4:45  ­  6:00PM    

Predictions  for  the  Future  and  Career  Advice  Tuesday  ­  "Live"  

Presenters  ­  Lee  Kushner  and  Mike  Murray  

  

The  employment  market  is  dramatically  changing  ­  and  the  closing  session  will  

begin  with  information  security  employment  predictions  (based  on  experience  and  

research)  for  the  next  ten  years.    Once  completed,  this  will  be  followed  by  a  version  

of  "Career  Advice  Tuesday"  ­  "Live".      All  attendees  can  have  their  personal  

information  security  career  questions  answered  in  an  open  forum.      Topics  will  

include  skill  development,  compensation  negotiation,  career  investments,  career  

planning,  and  anything  else  you  want  to  ask  about  your  Information  Security  Career.  

