Copyright    2015  Splunk  Inc.  
Robo9cs  Analy9cs     @  TGT  
U9lizing  Machine  Data  from   Robots  to  Provide  Data   Driven  Insights  and  Decisions  
Adam  McNeil   Alex  Sneed  Miller  
Target  

Disclaimer  
During  the  course  of  this  presenta9on,  we  may  make  forward  looking  statements  regarding  future   events  or  the  expected  performance  of  the  company.  We  cau9on  you  that  such  statements  reflect  our   current  expecta9ons  and  es9mates  based  on  factors  currently  known  to  us  and  that  actual  events  or   results  could  differ  materially.  For  important  factors  that  may  cause  actual  results  to  differ  from  those  
contained  in  our  forward--looking  statements,  please  review  our  filings  with  the  SEC.  The  forward-- looking  statements  made  in  the  this  presenta9on  are  being  made  as  of  the  9me  and  date  of  its  live   presenta9on.  If  reviewed  aVer  its  live  presenta9on,  this  presenta9on  may  not  contain  current  or   accurate  informa9on.  We  do  not  assume  any  obliga9on  to  update  any  forward  looking  statements  we  
may  make.       
In  addi9on,  any  informa9on  about  our  roadmap  outlines  our  general  product  direc9on  and  is  subject  to   change  at  any  9me  without  no9ce.  It  is  for  informa9onal  purposes  only  and  shall  not,  be  incorporated   into  any  contract  or  other  commitment.  Splunk  undertakes  no  obliga9on  either  to  develop  the  features  
or  func9onality  described  or  to  include  any  such  feature  or  func9onality  in  a  future  release.  
2  

Target  Stores  

Target  Distribu9on  

Splunk  Driven  Distribu9on  Centers  

More details about automation-Adam
6

Equipment  Data  Challenged  
 Data  Access    Cryp9c    Automated  Equipment                Manual  Repor9ng    Revision  Control    Archiving    

Founda9onal  5  for  Equipment  Management  

Fic99ous  KPI  Categories  

You  Need  More  Than  a  Trend  
What  is  normal  performance?   How  consistent  is  performance?  
What is current performance? What is the current trend?
Where is current performance?
The future will...?

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ce  
What  is  normal  performance?  

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ce  
How  consistent  is  performance?  

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ces  
What  is  current  performance?  

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ce  
What  is  the  current  trend?  

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ce  
Where  is  current  performance?  

Equipment  Management  Best  Prac9ce  
The  future  will...?  

Predic9on  In  Prac9ce  

Predic9ve  Equipment  Management  

Predic9ve  Equipment  Management  

Alerts  

Vision  
 14  Addi9onal  Splunk  driven  distribu9on  centers    Splunk  requirement  for  new  equipment  installs    Connect  Splunk  with  asset  management  system    Financial  data  integra9on  

Splunk  of  Tomorrow  

#TGTResults  

THANK  YOU  

