Terms  and  Conditions  for  participation  at  .conf2015:  The  6th  Annual  Splunk  Worldwide  Users'   Conference   I,  as  registrant,  hereby  acknowledge  and  agree  to  the  following  Splunk  Inc.  ("Splunk")  terms  and   conditions,  which  include  and  incorporate  by  reference  Splunk's  Privacy  Policy  and  Terms  of  Use.      Cancellations/Modifications   All  registrants  who  cancel  prior  to  the  first  day  of  .conf2015  (the  "Event")  or  who  do  not  attend  the   Event  may  forfeit  the  entire  registration  fee.  The  Event  program  schedule  is  subject  to  change  at  any   time  without  prior  notice,  and  Splunk  cannot  guarantee  the  attendance  of  any  exhibitor  or  speaker,   or  that  any  scheduled  event  will  take  place.  Splunk  and/or  its  employees,  vendors,  agents,  and   contractors  (collectively,  its  "Representatives")  will  not  be  held  liable,  and  no  reimbursement  will  be   made,  in  the  event  of  the  cancellation  or  modification  of  the  times,  dates,  and/or  events  of  the  Event   as  a  result  of  any  issue  or  occurrence  that  is  beyond  Splunk's  control.      Substitutions   Substitutions  are  allowed  with  the  written  permission  of  the  original  registrant,  and  prior  approval   of  such  substitution  by  Splunk.    Registrant  may  submit  a  request  via  email  to   confregistration@splunk.com.    Substitutions  require  that  the  new  attendee  expressly  agree  in   writing  via  email  to  confregistration@splunk.com  with  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  herein.        Payments   Subject  to  the  other  terms  set  forth  herein,  registrant  may  pay  by  credit  card,  check  or  purchase   order.  If  paying  by  check,  the  check  must  be  postmarked  by  the  corresponding  deadline  date  in  order   to  receive  that  pricing.  If  registrant  arrives  onsite  with  a  balance  due,  registrant  will  be  required  to   pay  the  full  onsite  price  for  the  package  selected.        Discounts   Unless  a  registrant  holds  a  valid  Splunk  certification,  which  may  provide  for  an  additional  discount,   only  one  discount  may  be  applied  to  any  individual  registration.  Registration  is  required  before  the   early  bird  discount  deadlines  in  order  to  receive  the  pricing  for  these  discounts.  Early  bird  discount   offers  are  available  only  to  registrants  using  a  valid  credit  card  as  method  of  payment.      Age  Requirement   Attendees  must  be  at  least  21  years  of  age  to  attend  the  Event  and  all  related  events.    Requests  for   any  exceptions  to  this  term  must  be  made  in  writing  to  conference  management.      Release   By  registering  for,  participating  as  a  speaker  of  (if  applicable),  or  attending  the  Event,  such  registrant   hereby  agrees  to  release  and  hold  harmless  Splunk  and  its  Representatives  from  any  and  all  alleged   and/or  actual  liability,  claims,  lawsuits,  damages,  or  losses,  of  any  kind  ("Claim")  which  arise  out  of  or   result  from  registrant's  attendance  at  and  participation  in  the  Event,  including  but  not  limited  to   property  damage  and  personal  injuries,  whether  or  not  foreseeable.        Photography,  Audio  and  Video  Recording   Splunk  or  its  authorized  Representatives  may  be  photographing,  audio  and/or  video  recording,   webcasting,  podcasting  and/or  conducting  interviews  and  hosting  presentations  at  the  Event.   Registrant  hereby  irrevocably  grants  to  Splunk  and  its  authorized  Representatives  the  absolute  and   non--exclusive  right  and  permission  to  use  registrant's  name,  likeness,  biographical  information,   voice,  content  of  any  interview,  image  and/or  photograph  and  any  other  indicia  or  persona  and,  if   registrant  is  participating  as  a  speaker  on  behalf  of  registrant's  company,  registrant's  company's   story  and/or  related  imagery,  videos,  slides,  presentations,  or  other  items  and  materials,  including   company's  name,  logos,  quotations,  product  descriptions  and  use  cases  (collectively,  "Registrant   Material"),  or  to  refrain  from  doing  so.  The  Registrant  Materials  may  be  used  in  connection  with  any   or  all  of  Splunk's  internal  or  external  advertising,  marketing,  packaging,  promotional,  or  sales   materials  (collectively,  "Splunk  Materials")  and  on  the  terms  described  herein  (collectively,  the  

"Rights").  The  Rights  include  but  are  not  limited  to  the  rights  to  advertise,  promote,  publicize,   reproduce,  perform,  display,  distribute,  transmit,  exhibit,  make  derivative  works  of,  and  otherwise   use  the  Registrant  Material,  or  any  part  or  derivative  thereof,  at  no  charge,  perpetually,  worldwide,   and  in  all  media  and  by  all  means  (now  known  or  hereafter  devised),  without  limitation,  including,   print  publications,  the  internet,  video  or  audio  broadcasts,  and  slideshows.    Splunk  may  reformat,   resize,  crop,  silhouette,  color  correct,  juxtapose,  edit,  or  make  other  minor  changes  to  the  Registrant   Materials,  but  otherwise  will  not  make  substantial  changes to  the  Registrant  Materials  without   registrant's  consent. To  the  extent  registrant  has  any  rights  in  any  Splunk  Materials  or  photographs   taken  or  recording  made  at  the  Event,  registrant  hereby  assigns  all  rights,  title  and  interests  in  and  to   the  photographs  and  recording  to  Splunk.  Attendees  are  permitted  to  photograph,  audio,  video   and/or  digitally  record  only  within  the  public  areas  of  the  Event  ("Attendee  Recordings"),  provided   such  Attendee  Recordings  shall  be  solely  for  their  own  personal,  non--commercial  use,  and  shall  not   be  used  by  attendee  to  suggest  endorsement  or  sponsorship  of  or  by  Splunk.  Use  of  any  Attendee   Recordings  for  commercial  purposes  requires  the  prior  written  permission  of  Splunk.  Splunk  is  not   responsible  for  other  attendees'  Attendee  Recordings  that  may  contain  registrant's  image.          Speaker  Obligations   If  participating  as  a  speaker  at  the  Event,  upon  registration  with  the  speaker  code  provided  to  me  by   Splunk,  I  further  acknowledge  and  agree  that  my  presentation  materials  do  not  infringe  any   copyright  or  other  intellectual  property  rights,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  publicity  or  privacy   rights  of  any  third  parties,  that  the  presentation  materials  do  not  contain  libelous  or  unlawful  matter,   that  all  factual  statements  are  based  on  customary  standards  of  academic  research,  and  that  Splunk  is   or  will  become  the  copyright  owner  of  any  recordings  made  of  my  presentation  during  the  Event.  I   agree  I  shall  have  no  rights  of  review  or  approval  over  Registrant  Materials,  except  as  noted  above,   no  Claim  to  compensation,  and  no  Claim  arising  out  of  or  resulting  from  the  use,  alteration,  blurring,   distortion  or  illusionary  effect  (whether  intentional  or  otherwise)  or  use  in  any  composite  form  of  my   Persona,  or  Registrant  Materials,  if  applicable,  and  agree  to  release  and  hold  Splunk  and  its   authorized  Representatives  harmless  for  any  and  all  such  use(s).        Denial  of  Registration,  Entry  or  Participation   Splunk  reserves  the  right  to  deny  registration  or  entry  to  any  individual  or  entity  for  any   reason,  in  Splunk's  sole  discretion,  including  for  past  or  present  failure  to  meet  Splunk's   standard  of  business  conduct  including,  but  not  limited  to,  false  pretenses  or  engaging  in   violent,  illegal,  threatening  or  discriminatory  conduct.  All  attendees  and  speakers  agree  to  abide   by  any  Code  of  Conduct  applicable  to  the  Event  as  provided  by  Splunk.    Loud,  abusive  or  defamatory   language,  harassment  or  other  unprofessional  or  inappropriate  behavior  is  not  permitted  at  any  time   at  the  Event.  If  registrant  engages  in  such  conduct,  Splunk  may  cancel  registrant's  participation  at  the   Event,  at  any  time  in  its  sole  discretion,  without  liability  to  registrant  or  its  affiliates  and  registrant   will  be  required  to  exit  the  Event  immediately.        Animals   Except  for  guide,  signal  or  service  dogs  (as  defined  by  law),  no  live  animals  or  pets  are  permitted  at   the  Event  facilities  without  Splunk's  prior  approval.     
By  agreeing  to  these  terms  and  conditions,  I  represent  and  warrant  that  I  have   the  full  right  and  authority  to  grant  the  Rights  and  agree  to  the  other   obligations  set  forth  herein  binding  me  and/or  my  company  and  that  no  third   party  consent  is  required.    These  terms  and  conditions  shall  be  governed  by   California  law,  without  regard  to  conflict--of--law  provisions.  

