SESSION ID: AIR-T08
How to prepare everyone for a Crisis?

Erin Becker
Director, Enterprise Incident Management Target

#RSAC

The world we live in...

4:00 pm

#RSAC
A day in the life ...

5:00 pm

7:00 pm

Malware is detected on a machine after a user clicks an email link

Investigation shows the email appears to have come from a vendor

Reimage and educate

Alert vendor

"Example Only"

Vendor reveals they are investigating a potentially
significant breach
... Now what!?

What do you do next?
 How can I minimize impact to our guests?  What should I be prepared to say externally?  How will my decisions impact operations?  Will this trigger regulatory or reporting requirements?
... and how do we coordinate everything in this time of crisis?
At Target, Enterprise Incident Management is a structured process, escalation, and decision framework that allows the technical team to stay focused on technical investigation and containment

Agenda
Pick the right people.
Form a cross-functional core team of 5-7
Process over plan
Agree before the incident occurs
Practice, Practice, Practice
Must represent their function + the company

Create a severity framework, not calculator

1 Risk to a large quantity of sensitive information, extreme disruption to business operations or threat to human safety.
2 Risk to a moderate quantity of sensitive information or significant disruption to business operations.
3 Risk to a low quantity of sensitive information or moderate disruption to business operations.
4 No risk to sensitive information and minimal disruption to business operations

Target Example
Severity Escalation

Team Representatives
9 Information Security 9 Legal 9 Public Relations 9 Fraud 9 Physical Security 9 Financial Services

War Room
You have all the right people activated in the war room...
Now What?

Define the process rather than a "plan"

War Room
There is a lot happening in the war room...
How do you track it all? How do you communicate up and out?

Ditch the templates for a whiteboard

Year 1: Getting Started
Prepares the company for when defenses fail by simulating a significant security event

Scenario Complexity
Focus Area (Train and Test)

POS Breach "Boots on the ground"

For Wargame Purposes Only

ADD WARGAME VIDEO
13

Year 2: Intermediate
We elevated the level of realism, surprise and Leadership Team dependencies

Scenario Complexity
Focus Area (Train and Test)
Unexpected twists

POS Breach Insider Threat
"Boots on the ground" Officer Teams
CISO unreachable

For Wargame Purposes Only

Year 3: Advanced

Scenario Complexity
Focus Area (Train and Test)
Unexpected twists

Insider Threat Ransom and Operations
Officer Teams CEO & Staff
Surprise!

For Wargame Purposes Only

Things to remember

Independent observation will drive
more meaningful feedback

Debrief lessons learned while everyone is still in game mode

Create meaningful action plans to drive
continuous improvement

Takeaways
1. Create a core team of trusted partners
2. Keep it Simple! 3. Effective wargames feel
"almost too real"

