1

About the Better Identity Coalition
· Focus: developing and advancing consensus-driven, cross-sector policy solutions that promote the development and adoption of better solutions for identity verification and authentication.
· Launched in February 2018 as an initiative of the Center for Cybersecurity Policy & Law, a non-profit dedicated to promoting education and collaboration with policymakers on policies related to cybersecurity.
· As government contemplates new policies to improve the quality of digital identity, the Better Identity Coalition is bringing together leading companies to help develop innovative ideas that improve security, privacy, and convenience for all Americans.
2

Some background
3

Some background
4

Members
5

Framing the Challenge

Security
Privacy
Customer Experience

Compliance
Transaction Costs
Trust

6

Trust
is hard to get right.

Identity
(when done right)
enables Trust

Identity
as
"the great enabler"

Identity as the Great Enabler
Providing a foundation for digital transactions and online experiences that are:
· Secure · Easy to Use · Protect Privacy
10

The challenge
"Digital identity presents a technical challenge because this process often involves proofing individuals over an open network, and always involves the authentication of individual subjects over an open network..." "The processes and technologies to establish and use digital identities offer multiple opportunities for impersonation and other attacks."
- National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
11

Our approach (to date)
12

Which has proven to be very practical
13

Especially when adversaries already know the answer
14

Nobody can actually manage this for one password ­ let alone
20-30
Any password that meets this criteria is still susceptible to phishing, malware and password reuse
Makes your employees and customers hate you

This has not worked well

15

The cost of outdated identity solutions
16

Why has this been so hard to solve?
· The "identity gap" ­ the U.S. has many nationally recognized, authoritative identity systems
· All are trapped in the paper world
17

This was an attempt to get around the "identity gap"
Industry needed something to enable trusted digital commerce ­ this was the best solution out there
18

It worked for a while
· But today, attackers have caught up
· "Out of wallet" questions are not as secret as they used to be
19

While any one of these breaches on its own creates serious policy issues, there now exists the potential for malicious actors to combine multiple stolen data sets into one, thereby enabling them to obtain more complete "packages" of identity information.
-House Energy & Commerce Committee, 2017
20

SSNs are no longer "secrets"
21

Summary: Where we are today
· In an era where transactions are increasingly digital, our authoritative identity systems are stuck in the paper world
· Solutions that "papered over" that fact helped for a while ­ but now attackers have caught up
· "Shared secrets" like SSNs and passwords are no longer secret · Industry innovation is helping to develop better, next-generation identity solutions such
as passwordless authentication and identity proofing tools that scan and validate ID documents · But ­ government remains the one authoritative issuer of identity. In this next phase of making identity "Better," the government also has a role to play
22

What does "Better" look like?
· Better Security ­ with Less Fraud and Identity Theft
­ Embracing the recommendation of the 2016 Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity that "Compromises of identity will be eliminated as a major attack vector by 2021."
· Better Convenience for Consumers
­ Allowing consumers to open new accounts online with ease, without having to go through duplicative, burdensome enrollment processes.
· Better Confidence for Both Consumers and Service Providers
­ That identities asserted online are reliable and trustworthy.
· Better Privacy
­ Shifting the predominant model for identity verification from one based on firms aggregating personal data without opt-in consent, to one where consumers proactively request that their identity be validated by parties with whom they already have a trusted relationship
23

How to Get There: A Policy Blueprint
· Five core areas where government can and should help · A specific action plan detailing "who needs to do what"
in Congress and the Executive Branch · No single action or initiative can "solve" identity · But: taken as a package, if this Policy Blueprint is enacted
and funded, it will make identity better
24

A Policy Blueprint
25

In simple terms:
If I've gone through the process of having an agency vet my identity once ­ can I ask that agency to vouch for me when I need to prove who I am to another party?
America's legacy paper-based systems should be modernized around a privacy-protecting, consumer-centric model that allows consumers to ask the government agency that issued a credential to stand behind it in the online world ­ by validating the information from the credential.
26

1. Agencies validate attributes

How this could work
I request the government helps me prove
I'm me

Match!

Match! ???
27

· Sec. 215 of the "Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act" directs SSA to establish this service for transactions covered under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA)
· One idea: expand beyond FCRA

Of note...

28

How this could work
2. Apps enable consumers to easily prove their identity
I request the government helps me prove
I'm me
??? Match!
29

30

Improving Identity While Protecting Privacy
· Inadequate identity solutions have impacted the privacy of millions of Americans ­ through an epidemic of breaches. Better Identity is key to improving privacy protections.
· New identity solutions backed by the government should embrace a "Privacy by Design" approach ensures that any new solutions are architected from the start to address privacy risks; protections are embedded in the solution architecture
· Government should only validate data should when consumers request it, and only for the purpose specified.
· Consumers should be able to choose to share or validate only certain attributes about themselves without revealing all their identifying data.
· To ensure that new systems are secure and privacy-preserving, NIST should be funded to lead development of a framework of standards and operating rules that will apply to any new government attribute validation services.
31

Helping states embrace Better Identity
· States are ideally suited to drive Better Identity
­ The driver's license is the document most commonly used to prove identity, and it's backed today by a robust, in-person identity proofing process
· In practice, most state DMV systems are not built to support modern identity services
­ Many states are running DMVs off infrastructure that is 20-30 years old
­ States are not incented on their own to invest in DMV modernization to support digital identity
32

Helping states embrace Better Identity
· $2.5-3 billion in unaddressed funding needs for DMV modernization that can support Better Identity
­ Based on an analysis of recent DMV modernization efforts
· Federal assistance can help catalyze activity in state governments: A five-year, $200 million-per-year grant program
­ Provide seed money to incent states to invest their own resources in modernizing DMVs to support digital identity
­ "Strings attached" ­ grants can only be used for systems that follow Federal (NIST) framework for security and privacy
33

Prioritize R&D and Standards
· Government investment in identity R&D and standards work has waned
· The Federal government should develop a new, forward-looking investment strategy for R&D and standards work in identity that
1) Ensures alignment in priorities across agencies, and 2) Ensures necessary work around identity is adequately funded
· Focus areas:
­ Active partnership with private sector standards efforts ­ Augmenting private sector-led R&D and standards work to fill critical gaps ­ Research and standards for privacy-preserving technologies in identity systems
34

R&D and Standards ­ where are there gaps?
· We have solid standards for
­ Identity proofing ­ Authentication ­ Federation
· Gaps
­ Attribute exchange ­ Use of identity analytics tools ­ Privacy and consent (including privacy-preserving technologies in identity systems) ­ "Mobile driver's licenses" ­ work underway ­ DMV security
35

Summary
a. Governments should offer new digital services to validate attributes ­ modernizing legacy paper-based identity systems around a privacy-protecting, consumer-centric digital model that allows consumers to ask the agency that issued a credential to stand behind it in the online world ­ by validating the information from the credential
b. Create a five-year, $200 million-per-year grant program to provide seed funding to states enabling DMVs to modernize and become digital identity providers
c. Develop a forward-looking investment strategy for R&D and standards work in identity d. Address policy and regulatory barriers that inhibit private sector entities from innovating
around identity ­ and create incentives that promote adoption of innovations
36

37

The Equifax breach spurred some proposals
38

The SSN is not just one thing
39

The SSN is not just one thing
Identifier
40

The SSN is not just one thing

Identifier

Authenticator

41

a. Frame proposals about the "future of the SSN" on the basis of its use as an authenticator, and identifier, or both
b. Stop using the SSN as an authenticator c. Preserve its use as an identifier ­ but look to
reduce its use wherever feasible
42

Don't: Seek to replace the SSN with a new government-issued identifier · It would cost billions of dollars and create confusion for millions of Americans ­ while offering very little security benefit · Introduction of a new identifier would require both government and industry to map back to the old SSN
­ Chaos due to errors in mapping and matching
43

Do: · Executive Order or legislation banning agencies from using SSN as an authenticator · Launch a task force charged with reviewing existing laws and regulations that require the use of the SSN and identifying whether any can be changed · Acknowledge that SSA plays a role in the identity ecosystem
44

Questions?
Jeremy Grant Coordinator Better Identity Coalition info@betteridentity.org jeremy.grant@venable.com
45

