Fear: Security's Weakest Link
Melanie Ensign, Security + Privacy Communications

What happens in your brain determines what you think, feel, say, and do.

Here we go.
Cool brain stuff coming...

Limbic System
Amygdala: Emergency Response Hypothalamus: Stress hormones Hippocampus: Focus

Experiencing Fear
and losing control.

Fear wreaks havoc on the brain

1
Stress hormones flood your system

2
Increased heart rate or sweaty palms

3
Shallow, rapid breathing

Neural pathway to prefrontal cortex shuts down Complex decision-making is weakened Ability to process multiple perspectives vanishes Memory is compromised

Habituation of Fear
means no one cares.

Half Life of Fear

Tuning Out
BYU Neurosecurity Lab Longitudinal study on habituation of security warnings MIS Quarterly, June 2018

Communicating with Fear
Stop it.

Neutralizing Fear
restores control and makes your brain "stickier" for learning.

Midbrain
Ventral tegmental - Dopamine Center Nucleus accubens - Cognitive Processing Caudate - Cognitive Functions

Curiosity is the antidote to fear.

Image Credit: Calypso Star Charter

Image Credit: Calypso Star Charter

Dr. Raj Sekhar Aich & Soosie Lucas

2 150

Years

Divers

20
Countries

Neurons that fire together, wire together.
Donald Hebb, 1949

The brain is an organ that learns.

The brain is designed to change.
Experience-Dependent Neuroplasticity
Rick Hanson, Ph.D.

1 trillion
support cells

80-100
billion neurons

5e+14
synapses

Active synapses become
more sensitive

New synapses
grow within minutes

Less active connections wither away

Your experiences matter

Image Credit: Stuart Cove's

When you're on top of the water, and you just see the fin, I think it's more scary because it's the unknown.
Calm, peaceful, and beautiful.
Inquisitive and curious.
Moving experience, and there was no fear at all.

The value of sharks' lives is now widely understood to be more important than their value as products. And when you have sharks in the area, it's a sign of good health.
Sylvia A. Earle

Bring it home
with your own "cage diving."

Cage Diving for #infosec
Providing this: Access to bug reports Pay out meetings Triage sessions
Teaches this: Risk severity Technical concepts Remediation process

Thank you.

Resources
"Tuning Out Security Warnings: A Longitudinal Examination of Habituation Through fMRI, Eye Tracking, and Field Experiments," BYU Nuerosecurity Lab: https://neurosecurity.byu.edu/
Encounters of the Great White Shark and Caged Humans in New Zealand: https://www.sharks.org/blogs/shark-culture/encounters-of-the-great-white-shark-and-caged-humansin-new-zealand
Hardwiring Happiness, Rick Hanson, Ph.D, 2013
Calypso Star Charter: https://sharkcagediving.com.au/
Maui Diving: http://mauidiving.com/

