SESSION ID: SEM-MO4
Find Your Voice and Your Confidence

Lynn Terwoerds
Executive Director Executive Women's Forum

#RSAC

#RSAC
Call to Action
Take a chance Take the initiative Inventory your strengths Be creative Get out there and speak!
2

#RSAC
Take a Chance ­ Getting Started
Know the conference or venue Understand their goals and audience Get your peer reviewers lined up immediately Understand the proposal and selection process thoroughly
3

#RSAC
Instant Poll
1. Have you completed a speaker submission/proposal? Y/N
2. Have you ever been a speaker at any infosec/privacy/IT risk conference? Y/N
3. Have you ever been a speaker at RSA Conference? Y/N

#RSAC
Take Initiative: Timelines & Requirements
Give yourself enough time ­ it takes longer than you think Be prepared to complete all the information Learn the session themes, tracks, formats and time allotments
5

#RSAC
Inventory Your Strengths ­ What Do You Have to Offer?
Expert? Technical? Unique viewpoint? Unique experience/industry/company? Are you well known? Influencer? Do you have research to report?
6

#RSAC
Be Creative ­ How to Stand Out
What makes you unique?
­ Hot topic? Controversy? Futuristic? ­ Unique perspective ­ One-of-a-kind expertise ­ Case studies, real life, practitioner
experiences you can share ­ Unique panels where the mix of
panelists are the draw ­ High value, high impact application
Interesting presentation format ­ think outside of traditional learning & presentation styles

#RSAC
Be Creative ­ Develop Your Ideas
What are you offering? New ideas, new approach?
Peer review is critical before and after submission process
Develop your core message, keep it simple
Relevant war stories are always interesting
Key takeaways and application ­ don't disappoint your audience

#RSAC
Caveats
Incomplete submission, didn't follow the rules
Product or company pitch
Lack of detail or topic is too basic
Underdeveloped ideas
Didn't ask permission from my company to speak or present on a topic
Deadlines are real

#RSAC
Get Out There and Speak!
Peer reviewers
­ Slide deck ­ Speaking ­ Content (tech review)
Practice, practice, practice
­ Consider a speaking coach or Toastmasters
­ Look for other speaking opportunities ­ introduce a speaker, lead a meeting or key presentation, webcasts, podcasts
Get energized ­ transform fear into enthusiasm

#RSAC
Get Out There and Speak ­ Practical Tips
Attend other presentations, view past presenters Ask conference staff for help Arrive early, get familiar with the room Demos go better when there's a plan B Use up nervous energy by talking to your audience ahead of time Positive visualization Breathe

#RSAC
Key Takeaways
Inventory your strengths, be creative Take the time to learn everything about the conference and the speaker submission process Give your idea time to develop and evolve Get your peer review team together Develop & practice your presentation Getting feedback Plan ahead for 2020 https://www.csoonline.com/article/3155500/the-cso-guide-to-topsecurity-conferences.html
12

#RSAC
Questions?
Interactive exercise is next. . . .
lynn@ewf-usa.com

#RSAC
It's Your Turn (~20 mins)
1. Look at your handout
2. Inventory your strengths
3. Develop a preliminary talk idea and share with your peer review group for feedback, i.e., those around you
Don't forget to introduce yourselves Be supportive and constructive in your feedback
4. Look at the checklist on the other side of your handout. Discuss with your peer review group strategies that might develop your talk idea and lead to a successful speaker proposal

