SESSION ID: SEM-M01B
Time to Reboot: The Industrial and Organizational (I/O) Psychology of Cybersecurity

Annalea Ilg
Chief Information Security Officer Involta @2GSecurity1

Keenan Skelly
President and CEO Spark Security Solutions, Inc. @KeenanSkelly

#RSAC

Agenda
Organizational Cybersecurity I/O Psychology Cybersecurity Challenges Cybersecurity I/O Psychology Ecosystem & Strategies Summary

#RSAC
Today's Cybersecurity Focus
3

#RSAC
The Problem: Team Dynamics
Change Human Behaviors Strengthen Cybersecurity Teams Improve the job Environment
4

#RSAC
Identify Current Corporate Culture

Introspection

Blockers

Solid ground to build

5

#RSAC

Cybersecurity Human
Elements

 "Power" Skills Development  Strategic Planning  Organizational Agility  Psychological Contract

6

I/O Psychology
The study of industrial and organizational psychology, to improve workplace issues facing individuals, teams and organizations.
......to improve productivity, efficiency and effectiveness while striving to make the workplace better.
7

#RSAC
Challenges Industry Individuals Face

Security Professional
 No continuing training  Not up to date on latest attacks and
methods  Lack of coordination with DevOps
and other key units  Overworked 24/7 Talent gap  Burnout  Budget  Where do fit in Big Picture

Information Technology Staff
 No training or inadequate on Security
 Expectation to be "on" 24/7  Managing secure cloud
migration  Data protection  Burnout  Budget  Big Picture
8

Business Staff
 No training or inadequate on
Security  Difficulty understanding the
value of Security  Need to tie security and IT to
direct revenue  Budget  Business Strategy

#RSAC
Organizational Strategic Dependencies
Company direction and human capital is unclear on priority, focus and authoritative guidance.
Company vision, strategy and the competitive advantage is not aligned with talent structure and development needs.
Company priorities fall short, resulting in turnover  Cultural and leadership styles are misaligned  Team efforts are siloed  Employees feel insecure
9

#RSAC
Changing Face of Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity is an enterprise problem. One that includes every single employee
 Emerging Threats  $3.92 Spent Globally in 2019  Human attack surface still the
most vulnerable.
10

#RSAC

The Balancing Act

 Continuously evolving landscape challenges `readiness'
 Escalating attack methods need to be engaged
 Security budgets need more prioritization
 Technical and architecture debt impedes progress.
 Continuous justification efforts for "buy-in" exhausts leadership

Strategic Planning for Cybersecurity
Elevate the cyber workforce. Its MORE than culture awareness. It's the HUMAN element of the organization.
 Collaboration  Accountability  Motivation
12

#RSAC
Cybersecurity I/O Psychology Ecosystem

Vision

Strategy

Cultural

Human Capital

Intelligence Development

Organizational Psychological Measurement

Outcomes

Contract

13

#RSAC
Cybersecurity Leader must....

Communications

VISION

STRATEGY

14

#RSAC

Organizational Agility

Companies are just beginning to prioritize the messaging.
Cybersecurity culture is not getting the attention it needs for real changes to occur.
They don't know the how, means or impact.

15

#RSAC

"Power" Skills Development

Cybersecurity professionals are losing the battle against external threats and failing at building allies with their business peers.
They feel constant defeat which can be paralyzing.

16

#RSAC
The severity of the problem is within the behaviors of the organization. Change which will cause business upset, if not approached properly.
17

Build Organizational Trust
1. Talk about fear and trust as business topics 2. Step away from blame and shame 3. Get to know co workers &employees personally 4. Value employees as people over production 5. Lead by example 7. Admit mistakes 8. Use a human voice in communications 9. Ask how things are going and listen to the
response 10. Be honest

#RSAC

18

#RSAC
Effective Cybersecurity Teams
Integrate security into the workplace principles/ corporate strategic plan Expand training to include "power skills" to be successful Partner with HR to ensure that talent and skillsets are aligned with need. Communicate the intangibles. Measure to a behavior anchors matrix- not just technical skills
19

#RSAC
Paths to Effective Teams
Shift from training to learning  Experiential  Immersive
Understand critical skill requirements  Technical  And non technical employees
Build an All In culture around cybersecurity awareness and skills  Align across the organization
20

#RSAC
Organizational Agility: Resilient and Adaptive
When working across organizations to secure assets, respond to threats and remediate weaknesses:
 Explain the "why"  Promote rapid change Conduct quarterly training sessions to explain what is expected and required. Integrate security within existing processes  Organizational change management  Promote accountability
21

#RSAC
Improve Job Environment
Key leaders need to be onboard. Communicate the psychological contact between employer and employee relating to cybersecurity. Discuss psychological contract between cybersecurity team and accountable leadership.
22

The Culture Code
Build Safety
 Overcommunicate your listening
 Preview future connection  Overdo thank you  Be painstaking about hiring  Eliminate bad apples  Create safe, collision-rich spaces  Make sure everyone has a voice  Capitalize on threshold
moments  Embrace fun

#RSAC
When cyber professionals are a part of sound culture that reflects who they are and the company strategy and vision; they are most likely to excel.

Share Vulnerability

Establish Purpose

Overcommunicate expectations
In conversation, resist the temptation to reflexively add value
Use candor-generating practices like AARs, BrainTrust and Red Teaming
Align language with action
Embrace the discomfort

 Name and rank your priorities
 Be ten times as clear about your priorities as you think you should be
 Figure out where your group aims for proficiency and where it aims for creativity
 Embrace catchphrases
 Measure what really matters
 Focus on bar-setting behaviors: translate abstract ideas into concrete terms

23

Organizational Cybersecurity Outcomes
The team is happy and healthy Conflicts are resolved quickly and effectively Reduce negative employee churn Clear organizational communications Strong talent Accountability and ownership expands beyond the department Security is a foundational element within the organizational strategy Improve the relationship, behaviors and communications between security and the business

#RSAC

#RSAC
Summary
Foster new behaviors Expand accountability across the organization Enhance "power" skills Involve other departments to solve problems Overly Communicate the "Why" Incorporate strategic thinking
25

#RSAC
Apply What You Have Learned Today

Next week you should:

Identify pain-points and improvement opportunity between the cybersecurity team/individual and the business.

In the first 3 months following this presentation you should:

Ensure a cybersecurity vision, strategy exists and start the conversations at the top-level.
Initiate a "power skills" learning development program and a mentorship program.

Within 6 months you should:

Partner with HR to integrate security principles into the foundation.
Conduct first organizational agility training session to get the business aligned with cybersecurity process.

#RSAC
Questions?
27

