Security is a Neverending
Story
CEO Luta Security Inc @lutasecurity @k8em0
Katie Moussouris

We're Going to Need More than Luck

Who the FSCK Are You? What is it you do here?
· Founder & CEO Luta Security
· Former Microsoft Security Strategist
· Former Hacker for Hire · ISO Standards Editor · New America Foundation
Fellow · MIT Sloan Visiting Scholar · Harvard Belfer Affiliate · Cyber Arms Control Re-
Negotiator

Every Story Has A Beginning

Hacker for Hire ­ Learning Empathy

Don't Let the Rain Get You Down
ALL CODE HAS SECURITY BUGS

This Guy is Onto Something
Thanks https://twitter.com/virturity/status/799242892082429953

I'm a Hacker and I'm Here to Help

@lutasecurity

@k8em0

History of Vulnerability Disclosure and Bug Bounty Programs

Vulnerability Disclosure vs. Bug Bounty Programs
 Vulnerability Disclosure Ensures that organizations are ready to handle vulnerability reports. Follows the ISO standards for vulnerability disclosure (ISO 29147) and
vulnerability handling processes (ISO 30111). 94% of the Forbes 2000 companies don't have this in place  Bug Bounty Programs Some organizations and governments choose to offer cash rewards for bugs. Some do it alone (e.g. Microsoft), while the majority choose a bug bounty
service provider to help. Bug Bounties can work in large and small organizations, with some prep &
help

Bug Bounty vs
Penetration Testing
And Bug Bounty Service Providers

Thanks Jason! http://www.slideshare.net/bugcrowd/how-do-i-shot-web-jason-haddix-at-defcon-23

Bug Bounty Service Providers ­ At a glance

BugCrowd

HackerOne

Synack

The Easy Button for Triage Platform for Power Users Secret Squirrels

Great if you need triage Great if you want

Great if you want a

support, less so if you

automation for your own crowd-sourced

don't want triage outside vulnerability handling, penetration test under

your company's eyes only less so if you lack the

NDA, less so if you need a

internal talent to use it broader pool of eyes

From Microsoft to the Pentagon AKA: From "No Way!" to "Ok, for Pay!"

Microsoft's Strategic Bounty Programs: $100,000 for new techniques $50,000 for new defenses $11,000 for IE11 beta bugs

Bounty Market Timing Tricks

Marketplace Gap: When Defense is the
only game in town
Actual Results: 18 serious security
holes

IE10 vs IE11 beta disclosure trends
30 25 20 15 10
5 0

IE10 beta, no bounty
IE11 beta, with bounty (PROJECTIONS ONLY)

Hack the Pentagon ­ Hack the Planet!

Hack the Army ­ Hack the Planet!

Coming in 2017: A Wave of Bug Bounties

Avoid these pitfalls, in Planning Bounties & Marathons
"Failing to plan is planning to fail." "Don't reinvent the wheel, just realign it."
Rushing into a bug bounty without preparation is like running a marathon immediately following a coma.
You're not a snowflake. Except that you are. Except that you're not when it comes to vulnerability disclosure.

With Great Regulation Comes
Great Responsibility

Swinging from the Cyberlier

Policy: I Do Not Think It Means What You Think It Means
· Not pronounced "police-y"
· I'm not a lobbyist, not a lawyer, though the activities are related
· I help advise lawmakers, regulators, governments
* Photo credit Dave Aitel

Wassenaar? Gesundheit!
· 41 countries trying to control weapons proliferation · December 2013: Added "intrusion software" and "intrusion software
technology" to the list of controlled weapons · May 2015: US proposed a draft implementation of the export control
rule to comply with Wassenaar

ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE!
INTENT vs RESULT: · Meant to regulate surveillance software, keeping it from being sold to
repressive regimes who would use it to abuse human rights (Sudan, Syria, etc) · Ends up catching all kinds of software and technology that is useful for defense
BREAKS THE ABILITY FOR THE INTERNET TO DEFEND ITSELF

MITIGATION BYPASS BOUNTY: $100,000 for a Technique
James and the Giant Check
!!!

Finger on (or near) The Button

Seems Easy, Right?

Vulnerability Coordination Maturity Model
Where to begin
Where to go

Vulnerability Coordination Maturity Model

 Model guides how to organize and improve vulnerability disclosure processes
 5 Capability Areas: Organizational, Engineering, Communications, Analytics and Incentives
 3 Maturity Levels for each Capability: Basic, Advanced or Expert
 Organizations can benchmark their capabilities

Analytics

Organizational

Communications

Incentives

Engineering

Organizational

Organizational
People, process, and resources to handle potential vulnerabilities
Level --Capability Basic Executive support to respond to vulnerability reports and a commitment to security and quality as core organizational values. Advanced Policy and process for addressing vulnerabilities according to ISO 29147 and ISO 30111, or a comparable framework. Expert You have executive support, processes, budget and dedicated personnel for handling vulnerability reports.

Engineering

Engineering:
Capabilities to evaluate and remediate security holes, and improve software development lifecycle
Level -- Capability Basic Clear way to receive vulnerability reports, and an internal bug database to track them to resolution. See ISO 29147. Advanced Dedicated security bug tracking and documentation of security decisions, deferrals, and trade-offs. Expert Use vulnerability trends and root cause analysis to eliminate entire classes of vulnerabilities. See ISOs 29147, 30111, 27034.

Communication

Communications
Ability to communicate to audiences internally and
externally about vulnerabilities.
Level - Capability Basic Ability to receive vulnerability reports and a verifiable channel to distribute advisories to affected parties. See ISO 29147. Advanced Tailored, repeatable communications for each audience, including security researchers, partners, customers, and media. Expert Structured information sharing programs with coordinated distribution of remediation.

Analytics

Analytics
Data analysis of vulnerabilities to identify trends and improve processes.
Level - Capability Basic Track the number and severity of vulnerabilities over time to measure improvements in code quality. Advanced Use root causes analysis to feed back into your software development lifecycle. See ISOs 29147, 30111, 27034. Expert Track real-time telemetry of active exploitation to drive dynamic pivots of remediation strategy.

Incentives

Incentives
Ability to encourage security researchers to report vulnerabilities directly.
Level - Capability Basic Show thanks or give swag. Clearly state that no legal action will be taken against researchers who report bugs. Advanced Give financial rewards or bug bounties to encourage reporting the most serious vulnerabilities. Expert Understand adversary behavior and vulnerability markets, and structure advanced incentives to disrupt them.

Someone Will Disclose a Bug
to You or breach you.
Not if. When.

Proactive Steps
1. Take the Vulnerability Coordination Maturity Model Assessment today to assess your capabilities
2. Ask for help from those who have come before to develop your strategic and tactical plan for the inevitable vulnerability report
3. Consider your goals if seeking a bug bounty or any other security service provider 4. Vulnerability Disclosure is among your first steps, master that, and practice the
EMPATHY that security requires. 5. Build Security In whenever you can, but know that you will not be able to catch
everything
Bug Bounties don't need to spill blood in the water. Bug Bounties won't replace other security testing.
Hackers can help you ­ if you let them!

Change is the only constant EVOLVE

Where Will Your Security Story Take You?

