Prevention as a Service
Fast prevention of any content-borne attack, across email and cloud collaboration channels
Perception Point is on a mission to protect all organizations by detecting and intercepting any cyber threat that is delivered via content such as text, les and URLs, across email, cloud collaboration channels and applications.

Email
Cloud Storage

BEC Phishing
Any Threat. Any Channel. Lightning Fast Detection

Malware Zero-days

Cloud Apps

ICAP-based Apps

Proprietary Channels

Evasion

Perception Point's solution met all required KPIs in only 1 week. They prevented almost 2 dozen attacks in no time, saving the company severe potential damages. They also didn't a ect the user experience as promised in the rst pitch.
(CISO, Fortune 500 company)

Recognized as a Representative Vendor in 2021 Gartner Market Guide
for Email Security for 3rd Year in a Row*

#1 in Independent Detection Testing

www.perception-point.io | info@perception-point.io |

Patented Dynamic Scanning Technology

Why Perception Point?
UNMATCHED PROTECTION AT THE SPEED OF YOUR BUSINESS Perception Point's SaaS solution is powered by patented detection engines and provides a detection rate of more than 99.95%. Dynamically scanning 100% of content, including embedded les and URLs in just seconds, it eliminates your security blind spots for the best protection of your organization.
COST REDUCTION AND SIMPLIFIED MANAGEMENT WITH AN INTEGRATED INCIDENT RESPONSE SERVICE An all-included Incident Response service combines machine learning, automated processes, and close engagement with our cybersecurity experts, so that every incident is analyzed and managed e ciently. The service is an extension to your SOC team and ensures continuous optimization of the system's detection rates. Your management overhead is reduced and you can save up to 75% of your SOC time.

The Perception Point solution is easy and straightforward to deploy. It made an immediate impact on our day to day operation. I can't say enough about the team and how quickly they responded to questions, new feature requests or improvements. Any issue I faced was answered on the same day.
IT infrastructure manager, Finance

Unprecedented protection against any attack type
Outperforms all solutions in accuracy and speed
Scan 100% of tra c in real-time
Unlimited scale: scanning every piece of content, regardless of volume
Easy to use, intuitive solution
Simple, easy to operate management dashboard.
No long manuals

Unmatched detection speed & scale
Lowering dynamic threat analysis time from minutes into seconds
Integrated incident response
All-included incident response serves as a force multiplier to the SOC team
One-click deployment
SaaS solution deploys in one click with existing
security solutions

99.95%
Detection rate

40X
Faster detection

Scale

70%
SOC time saving

www.perception-point.io | info@perception-point.io |

Eliminate Security Blind Spots with 360° Channel Coverage

Your organization is exposed to the same types of content-borne attacks from both email and other cloud collaboration channels. Perception Point holistically protects all cloud channels, allowing you to easily extend the same policies from email to all other channels, consolidate security systems, and obtain a uni ed view that monitors all tra c in the organization.

Email
Any web-base email service

Cloud Storage

Collaboration Apps
Up next:

Web Proxy & File Sharing
Any ICAP-based content sharing app:

Proprietary Channels
Interactive, highly customized API allows
full integration with any in-house built collaboration app.
No adjustments needed. No complex
admin guides.

Perception Point has allowed our team to feel at ease when it comes to OneDrive and SharePoint. There is no solution like Perception Point when it comes to o ering true threat prevention for these channels."
(Information Security Director, Fortune 500 company)
Selected Customers
www.perception-point.io | info@perception-point.io |

Protect Your Organization with Unprecedented Advanced Threat Detection
Perception Point is a pioneer in advanced threat detection. Our platform recursively unpacks every piece of content and rapidly scans all text, les and URLs with multiple advanced detection engines. The di erent engines leverage state of the art detection algorithms using computer vision, machine learning, and various dynamic and static methods, to intercept every type of threat, from commodity attacks to advanced threats.

Collaboration Apps Cloud Storage

Cloud/On-prem Email

Spam Filter
Anti-spam

Recursive Unpacker
Deep Scanning

Static
File Analysis

HAPTM
Dynamic Analysis Zero & N-Days

Threat Intelligence Known Attacks BEC
Impersonation

Phishing
URLs

1
Spam Filter (Email Only) Receives the email and applies reputation and anti-spam lters to quickly ag an email as malicious.
4
Phishing Engines Combines best-in-class URL reputation engines and an in-house image analysis engine to identify impersonation techniques and phishing attacks.

2

3

Recursive Unpacker
Unpacks the content into smaller units ( les and URLs) to identify hidden malicious attacks, extracting embedded URLs and les recursively by unpacking les and following URLs. All of the extracted components go separately through the next security layers.

Threat Intelligence
Combines multiple threat intelligence sources with our internally developed engine that scans URLs and les in the wild to warn about potential or current attacks.

5
Static Signatures Combines best-in-class signature based antivirus engines together with proprietary technology to identify highly complicated signatures.

6
BEC Prevention of payload-less attacks that don't necessarily include malicious les/URLs, e.g. spoo ng, look-alike domain, display name deception.

7
HAPTM (Hardware-assisted Platform) Next-gen sandbox proprietary engine that is composed of software algorithms using CPU-level data to access the entire execution ow, right from the processor, to deterministically intercept any type of advanced attack on both Windows and macOS environments. This layer provides unprecedented detection against malicious code execution in scripts and executable les, zero-day and N-day vulnerabilities, logical bugs, next-gen exploitations, ATO and more.

www.perception-point.io | info@perception-point.io |
* GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its a liates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.

