DATASHEET

Synack -- A better way to pentest
Find the vulnerabilities that matter
Security must scale with digital transformation
As your organization's digital footprint scales and transforms, so too must your security testing. Whether driven by initiatives such as cloud security or more rapid code deployments, great security testing today must be more dynamic than penetration testing's traditional static methodologies.
What Synack does
Synack's premier on-demand security testing platform harnesses a vetted community of the world's most talented security researchers and smart technology to deliver continuous penetration testing and vulnerability management, with actionable results.
CONTINUOUS PENETRATION TESTING WITH SYNACK · Combining smart technology with human talent: Synack delivers
easy continuous penetration testing, vulnerability management, vulnerability assessment and effective reporting in an integrated controlled platform. The work of our global network of vetted security researchers is enhanced by smart technology including SmartScan, reporting functionalities, risk scores, VPN controls and more. · On-demand security talent: As soon as you start pentesting with Synack, SRT members begin hunting for vulns across your attack surface, and are available 24/7 to communicate on found vulns and verify patches through the Synack Platform. · Fast and easy deployment: Synack can deploy new penetration tests in as little as 3­5 days, as opposed to traditional pentesting that can take up to multiple weeks. We provide client support in onboarding through Synack Customer Success. · Efficient reporting and workflow enablement via integrations: Synack reports on a wide range of metrics (new vulnerabilities, steps to reproduce, suggested fix, industry vulnerability trends) and integrates with JIRA, ServiceNow, and Splunk to facilitate faster remediation.
ASSET TYPES SYNACK TESTS

External Public-Facing Testing

Internal Facing Testing

Cloud Testing

Bridge the gap with cyber talent augmentation through the Synack Red Team
The Synack Red Team (SRT) is an elite community of worldwide security researchers, representing the top talent in cybersecurity today. By utilizing the SRT community, you reap the benefits of a diverse set of skills and perspectives, allowing for more creativity and comprehension in penetration testing as well as skill and talent augmentation for specific security tasks.
The 5-stage vetting process

1
Resume Review

2 Interview

3
Skills Assessment

4
Background & ID Check

5
Acceptance & Monitoring

~10% acceptance rate

Applicants go through a series of rigorous steps when applying to be a part of the Synack Red Team community.
" Services like those offered by Synack are important...because the laboratory can't afford to keep the scale and diversity of pen-testers necessary to cover the heterogeneous IT environment on payroll. These folks cover the gamut of every tool and every application, every type of scenario you can think of. I want them testing our environment." KEVIN KERR ­ CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER FOR THE OAK RIDGE NATIONAL LABORATORY, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

LEVERAGE SRT TALENT FOR SECURITY TASKS BEYOND PENETRATION TESTING In addition to providing diverse perspectives during penetration testing, the Synack Red Team can perform valuable security tasks to help you achieve your wider security objectives and bridge the cyber talent gap: · Zero Day Response and CVE Checks
Understand your susceptibility to new and urgent vulnerabilities like log4j with written reports by SRT members. · Vulnerability Checklists
Check assets for vulnerabilities like those found in the OWASP Top 10 and guides like the WSTG. · Hacker's Perspectives
Get a hacker's perspective to inform testing priorities, uncover root causes of vulnerabilities, check assets in an M&A and more. · Benchmarks Benchmark your security protocols against best practices outlined in frameworks like the Application Security Verification Standard from OWASP.
Reach out to sales@synack.com to get started with a better pentesting experience.

© 2022 Synack Inc. All rights reserved.

2022-799

CASE STUDY

Federal agency gains critical insight into their security posture
CISO demands second opinion after internal reporting showed zero vulnerabilities

Situation
Security testing within a large US federal government agency was dispersed by department and performed by various teams. Pentesting was required, but each division operated somewhat independently and hired testers with various skill levels. Results were inconsistent and data from testing was trapped in written reports, not structured data. The CISO could not easily determine the quality of testing, remediation status, or the need for security improvements.

Problem
Pentest reports filed by several of the agency's divisions consistently indicated no major vulnerabilities found. Yet, one of those divisions found itself in the headlines for a major cybersecurity breach.
The problem was that asset owners could block security testing. While the CISO was responsible for overseeing the testing process, only asset owners could grant access for safe testing. The CISO had to find a new way to perform penetration testing across the agency and convince the rest of the agency's security community that it was the right approach. Willing and enthusiastic support from the divisions' security community was essential for the new testing program to work.

Synack Solution
Synack was selected because of its security testing platform, coupled with a highly skilled and vetted team of testers, that provided a consistent testing experience for all the divisions within the agency. With the help of Synack, the CISO was able to gather all security personnel to participate in a live hack event. There the Synack Red Team (SRT) detected vulnerabilities across agency assets. While the Synack team went to work testing, they explained what they were doing, as well as all the technical controls in place to conduct a safe test. This included testing only assets in scope for testing and monitoring testing traffic volume. Every vulnerability report was evaluated by a triage team and results appeared in the agency's portal in real-time for immediate remediation.
Synack facilitated an agency-wide education initiative to raise awareness of the benefits of security testing and how it could be done without adding time or expense to application owners within the agency. Data from Synack about vulnerability types most commonly found, such as SQLi and Authorization/Authentication, were used to focus developer training on security. SRT members were able to suggest improvements that were passed on from the security team to developers. And, due to the success that the agency had with the offering of Synack security tests, they have doubled their testing efforts with Synack.

Results
· Approximately one-third of the 1,150 vulnerabilities found in the first year were high or critical severity
· Improved the Approval to Operate (ATO) process, an internal checkpoint before application deployment
· Reduced Mean Time to Mitigate (MTTM) and improved patch verification process
· Attacker Resistance Score (ARS) -- a measure of how hard it is to find vulnerabilities -- steadily increased

© 2022 Synack Inc. All rights reserved.

2022-496

WHITE PAPER
TRADITIONAL PENTESTING:
A TURTLE CHASING A CHEETAH
By Kim Crawley

Pentesting Needs to Evolve
Simply doing more pentests in the traditional manner is not viable. While missing all kinds of critical vulnerabilities, traditional pentests can even make the ones that are found and reported difficult to keep up with. It's frustrating to think of all the money, labor and resources that are being spent by security teams and their contractors only for those efforts to fall short in response to today's and tomorrow's cyber threats. In the words of Roman Medina, CISO at Jefferson Bank in Texas, "I do think we may miss critical issues or vulnerabilities if we stick to the same annual pentest year after year. The way we pentest has to evolve. I am looking at starting a continuous pentest service next year." It's not possible to staff a large enough team to perform traditional pentests in a more continuous manner. It's time to reimagine how pentests are staffed and performed. Organizations need scalable third-party solutions that harness technology combined with manual, human testing in order to provide more flexibility, continuity and intelligence than a traditional pentest.
" I do think we may miss critical issues or vulnerabilities if we stick to the same annual pentest year after year. The way we pentest has to evolve. I am looking at starting a continuous pentest service next year." ROMAN MEDINA - CISO, JEFFERSON BANK

Traditional Pentesting: A Turtle Chasing a Cheetah

2

Pentesting Deficiencies Analysis
As a security leader, you know why legacy tech is insecure, impractical and insufficient. In that spirit, we must also reconsider legacy pentesting practices. Using antiquated pentesting methodology in today's cyberthreat landscape is like sending a tortoise to catch a cheetah. It's a big hurdle to overcome, but we must face these challenges with tenacity and ingenuity.
Security teams have an incredibly important role in protecting their organizations. We hope that this white paper provides an understanding of objections to traditional pentesting. You deserve to find vulnerabilities that matter -- not create more work and risk for your security team.
Here's a point-by-point analysis of why and how old-school pentesting is no longer up to the challenges we face today:

· Too slow and static for the cloud era. A traditional, annual pentest misses critical cloud risks
? and assets. It's point-in-time, has a vast landscape to cover, and doesn't adequately convey
the state of the environment. A zero day vulnerability or misconfiguration can occur at any time regardless of defenses in place (e.g., Apache Log4j). Adversaries can and will exploit ephemeral cloud assets exposed on the Internet (e.g., containers, storage buckets, etc.).

· Deployment lacks flexibility and scalability. Traditional pentesting cannot scale in
? organizations with tens of thousands of assets. Organizations are frustrated with extended
wait times for testing, the lack of effective coverage, and the inability to have insight into what was actually tested. The cumulative outcome of these gaps is the inability to have assurance and trust in your own capabilities.

· Mere compliance means security on paper, not in the wild. Regulatory compliance is a vital

?

baseline for any security program, but it's not sufficient in measuring performance overtime

or in communicating environmental hardness. When exploitable vulnerabilities are disclosed,

malicious hackers immediately begin their enumeration process to identify targets. Attackers

don't care about rules of engagement, and they certainly won't wait for you to patch.

· Disrupts security and development workflows. A traditional pentest creates anxiety and

?

unnecessary work for security teams. Results are not actionable. Most vendors won't re-test,

measure security improvements, or provide real-time analytics. Poor pentesting skills can

also lead to disruption through accidentally taking network segments offline -- leading to

expensive downtime.

· Lacks the creativity and resources of adversaries. Organizations are living in the ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) era. Attackers have a wide range of tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) that pentests need to replicate. Two consultants armed with a checklist can't and won't prepare you for what's coming.

Traditional Pentesting: A Turtle Chasing a Cheetah

3

The Inconvenient Truth of Traditional Pentesting
Annual pentesting has been a compliance standard for a long time. Organizations frequently seek out pentesting as part of compliance with NIST, PCI-DSS, and GDPR. However, security teams need to rethink the way they pentest today to make sure they are not missing critical security vulnerabilities.
Traditional pentesting is too slow and static for the cloud era
The cloud has revolutionized how business is done these days. Cloud assets are elastic, dynamic and growing faster than ever:
· Containers and virtual machines can have life spans of mere days. Cloud resources can double and halve in size in the blink of an eye.
· Traditional pentesting is designed for a pre-cloud world where networks are entirely on premises and change much more gradually.
· Case in point: According to research from Palo Alto Networks, large organizations add 1,300 new publicly accessible cloud services per a year on average.1

Log4Shell

OMIGOD

Database exposure

SolarWinds

Over-permissive privileges

1. Cortex Xpanse Research

Traditional Pentesting: A Turtle Chasing a Cheetah

4

Old fashioned pentesting deployments fail at flexibility and scalability
Deployments may take weeks or months to schedule, which significantly delays the testing process:
· When a new exploitable vulnerability appears on Twitter or Reddit, organizations often don't have the flexibility to check for that specific CVE on demand.
· A recent research report examining software vulnerabilities on social media found that on average they are discussed on Twitter, Github, and Reddit for 87 days before being added to the National Vulnerability Database (NVD).1
· It's impossible to scale manual testing deployments from one to tens of thousands of assets.
· A related problem is that pentests require the work of specialists with different skill sets, and it's difficult to schedule them if you plan engagements the traditional way.
Mere compliance should not be a security baseline
Regulatory compliance is an important component of a security program, but compliance checklists fall short:
· If you're pentesting periodically according to compliance rather than pentesting continuously, it's difficult to measure security hardening and security maturity over time.
· Finding and addressing exploitable vulnerabilities months after they emerge is fine for compliance because audits don't happen every month.
· The inconvenient truth is that cyber threat actors are testing you every day, much faster than the bureaucratic pace of HIPAA, Sarbanes-Oxley or the GDPR.
· When zero day vulnerabilities are released, malicious hackers can immediately begin their enumeration process to identify targets (e.g., Microsoft Exchange).
· If your organization's sensitive data is breached in the months it took to find a vulnerability, it may still lead to unwanted headlines, compliance violations or damage to the brand.
· Point-in-time reporting fails to provide timely assessments of new and exploitable vulnerabilities.
The inconvenient truth is that cyber threat actors are testing you every day, much faster than the bureaucratic pace of HIPAA,
Sarbanes-Oxley or the GDPR.

1. Shresthra et al. "Multiple social platforms reveal actionable signals for software vulnerability awareness: A study of GitHub, Twitter and Reddit." March 24, 2022.

Traditional Pentesting: A Turtle Chasing a Cheetah

5

Traditional pentesting disrupts security and development workflows
One reason why organizations don't pentest anywhere near as frequently as they should is that traditional pentesting is disruptive:

· Many scanners used in pentests surface noisy results, distracting from critical vulnerabilities which should be addressed first.
· Vendors send pentest reports in formats that are not actionable (e.g., PDFs and Excel sheets).
· Assuming reports are not lost, a security team member needs to copy and paste information into ticketing tools like Jira or ServiceNow.

· A pentest can cause an entire network segment or company department to go offline.
· Sometimes pentests need to be repeated to gather more information. But when pentesting is disruptive, repeating an exploit can be messy and aggravating.
· Faster remediation is more important than ever as hackers will prioritize externally facing vulnerabilities like misconfigured S3 buckets or supply chain vulnerabilities.

Traditional pentesting fails to match the creativity and resources of adversaries
Simply put, traditional pentesting is ineffective in every applicable way:
· It can be difficult to find top pentesting talent, especially those with specific specializations.
· Inevitably, the knowledge and skills of a few pentesters are limited compared to that of a couple hundred or even a thousand pentesters.
· Collective intelligence is a measurable phenomenon, one that can be more inventive and effective in discovering vulnerabilities and exploits.
· Traditional pentesting engagements are limited in scope by design, partly to avoid disruption and partly due to limited time and resources. Significant areas of your network will be missed.
vs
· The reality is that networks are getting "pentested" frequently every day by threat actors, but your organization doesn't benefit from seeing the results.
· Today's cloud and hybrid networks are elastic and dynamic, as are the cyber threats organizations of all kinds now face. You can't counter a dynamic threat with a static tool like traditional pentesting.

Traditional Pentesting: A Turtle Chasing a Cheetah

6

T©ra2d02it2ioSnyanal cPkeIncte. Asltl irniggh:tsAreTsuerrtvleedC. hasing a Cheetah

7
2022-272

