© 2022 Silensec ­ All rights reserved.

Security Simulation Training

Cyber Posture Validation

Cyber Preparedness Assessment

Cyber Resilience Testing

New Technologies Impact

People & Process Management

The cyber range of choice for MAD 2.0 Purple Teaming
mitre-engenuity.org

Use Cases
 Deep-dive Situational Experiences  Individual and Team-based Practice  Self-paced, Instructor-led, Anywhere Anytime  Learning Pathways on multiple criteria  Top 10 Abilities  Talent Selection and On-Boarding  CTFs, Regional Competitions, SOCathons  Table-Top, Cyber and Cross Cyber Exercises  War Games, LiveFIRE XC, APTs  Threat-informed Cyber Defence  Blue v Red Team, DevOps, White Team Drills  Product Testing, Proof-of-Value  nCERT & CSIRT Development Programme

Features
Next-Generation Technology TOAR-enabled
Range "on Tap", Managed, On-Prem, Portable Complex Threat Emulation Scenarios Virtual IT/OT/ICS/IoT Infrastructures
Off-the-shelf, Bespoke, Drag-n-Drop Replication Injector Engine for Use Traffic & Attack Emulations
Full Support of MITRE ATT&CK Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Third-Party Tech Integration, e.g. SIEM, WAF, EDR Competency Frameworks, e.g. NIST NICE Integration with LMS and HCMS Start-to-finish performance metrics

Call us in North America toll-free:
1-800-959-0163
CYBER RANGES Corp. Quantico Cyber Hub
Suite 305, 1010 Corporate Drive Stafford, VA 22554
 contact@cyberranges.com
Information Security Professionals
USA | Canada | UK | Cyprus | Kenya
www. silensec.com  www.cyberranges.com

MAD for TOAR: Enabling Threat-informed Cyber Defense

The cyber security industry has clearly shown practice-based talent development to be the crucial contributor to cyber capability and resilience for organizations and nations.

Abilities and experience are recognized as key to competence

development, beyond the supply and acquisition of mere

knowledge and skills. Competence being the behavioral cornerstone of the `human firewall' and the `human perimeter'

Training
Ingests and analyses data

that underpin an organization's cyber resilience.

Automation
Automates low-level manual processes

To be cost and time effective cyber security talent development must be: up to date on the latest and most complex attack vectors, hands-on and experiential to acquire muscle memory, very realistic as to exercise infrastructure and scenarios, easy to access, scalable to large audiences, repeatable, measurable and leadning to meaningful and actionable insights.
This translates into TOAR, the platform developed by Silensec for Training Orchestration Automation and Response, which ensures that:

Orchestration
Connects and integrates
disparate tools

Response
A single-view dashboard to plan, manage, monitor and report incident response

 Training benefits of the latest threat intelligence inputs.  Gamified exercises occur in a sandbox environment where the latest threats can be safely detonated in a replica
environment according to an engaging slate of roll-out activities and events, designed, built, and deployed to reflect real-life use contexts, to apply any available tools of trade, to engage numbers of users and teams over a meaningful period of time.  Such a slate of exercises runs on seamless functionalities based on high orchestration and high automation, in order to meet the requirements for cost and time-efficient deployment of resources, participants, events.  Participants' performance is full tracked and observed before, during and post exercises, with gathering and analysis of metrics, against a competency framework and other applied criteria.  This also includes processes and technologies tested in an exercise. All resulting data is captured and made shareable with other internal / external business systems, such as for Learning Management, Human Capital, proof of concepts towards development roadmaps, for policy and regulations compliance, and collaboration and coordination frameworks.

CYBER RANGES provides the TOAR-enabled next-generation App-built simulation platform that provides a fully-featured sandbox environment to apply the latest threat data to the development of complex exercise scenarios that can detonate complex attack simulations into true-to-life IT/OT networks and are run by even large numbers of players, both individuals and teams, anytime anywhere. Through APIs then the resulting data is managed and exported to other stakeholders of an organization's cyber security ecosystem.

© 2022 Silensec ­ All Rights Reserved

Novel Advanced Attack Simulation Gamified Realism
Easy Management through Orchestration Scenario Automation & Customization Multiple Deployment Options API-based integration

True-to-Life Experience Threat-informed Multiple Use Cases Performance Benchmark
Re-play Value

Return on Investment
cyberranges.com

TOAR-enabled next-gen CYBER RANGES secures maximum ROI in cyber security capability development

TOAR enables CYBER RANGES to play the industry-wide role of ecosystem platform for effective cyber security capability and resilience building.

www.cyberranges.com

MITRE Engenuity Launches New MITRE ATT&CK DefenderTM Purple Teaming Initiatives and Cyber Range
by MITRE Engenuity | Apr 19, 2022 | MITRE ATT&CK Defender, Press Release | 0 comments
updated MAD platform with a cyber range, are now available to improve the cyber community's threat-informed defense.
McLean, Va. & Bedford, Mass. (April 19, 2022) -- MITRE Engenuity, MITRE's tech foundation for public good, announced that MITRE ATT&CK DefenderTM (MAD), the cybersecurity community's MITRE ATT&CK® training and
credentials along with version 2.0 of its platform, now with a cyber range, to empower threat-informed defenders.
" and actionable insight for the defenders", says Steve Luke, director of training and "It clearly shows them their current posture, both strengths and weaknesses, against real-world TTPs (tactics, techniques, and procedures) to
Version 2.0 of the MAD platform delivers a streamlined user experience and access to a cyber range thanks to a new joint initiative between CYBER RANGES and MITRE Engenuity, giving learners access to the CYBER RANGES next-generation cyber range platform. CYBER RANGES fully supports ATT&CK across its entire cyber range architecture. Through its Injector Engine, CYBER RANGES automatically can emulate the latest cyber threat intelligence-based attacks, advanced persistent threats (APTs), and specific tactics and exploits. Initially, MAD subscribers can access practice labs running on CYBER RANGES. New practitioner-level assessments and certifications are coming soon and will offer MAD subscribers a new way to prove their mastery of adversary emulation and threat hunting concepts.
" Dr. Al Graziano, CEO for CYBER RANGES, commented, "We are delighted that MITRE Engenuity has selected CYBER RANGES as the cyber-range-of-choice for MAD 2.0. Our research, innovation, and community values very closely align with those of MITRE Engenuity's MAD team. Our collaboration stems from our novel `top 10 abilities' approach, which focuses on observable, measurable abilities to validate cybersecurity talent, and the underpinning TOAR platform, which supports strong cyber defense development ecosystems based on threat intel, next-gen cyber ranging and incident response."
and more than 1,600 companies, helps close the persistent cybersecurity skill gap to enable defenders to gain the advantage over adversaries. These new MAD training and certification resources come in addition to the 10 learning modules and two certifications that were already offered: ATT&CK SOC Assessments and ATT&CK Cyber Threat Intelligence.
https://mitre-engenuity.org/blog/2022/04/19/mad-purple-teaming-initiatives-and-cyber-range/

" on an individual basis, they also will provide greater peace of mind for organizations as a whole," says Chriss Knisley, general manager, MITRE ATT&CK Defender, MITRE Engenuity. "The whole idea behind purple teaming is enhanced collaboration, and now, with the new training capabilities, security teams can work more closely together to successfully defend their organizations from the latest adversarial tactics and techniques."
With the new o ATT&CK in practical ways for SOC assessment, cyber threat intelligence, adversary emulation, threat hunting and purple teaming. MITRE ATT&CK provides a common language for each discipline to communicate with each
critical systems.
To learn more about MAD, in addition to all of their current trainings and certifications, visit https://mitre-engenuity.org/mad/.
###
About MITRE Engenuity
MITRE Engenuity, a subsidiary of MITRE, is a tech foundation for public good. MITRE's mission-driven teams are dedicated to solving problems for a safer world. Through our public-private partnerships and federally funded R&D centers, we work across government and in partnership with industry to tackle challenges to the safety, stability, and well-being of our nation.
MITRE Engenuity brings MITRE's deep technical know-how and systems thinking to the private sector to solve complex challenges that government alone cannot solve. MITRE Engenuity catalyzes the collective R&D strength of the broader U.S. federal government, academia, and private sector to tackle national and global challenges, such as protecting critical infrastructure, creating a resilient semiconductor ecosystem, investing in pandemic preparedness, accelerating use case innovation in 5G, and democratizing threat-informed cyber defense.
-
About CYBER RANGES
next-generation military-grade full-content-lifecycle platform for the validation of threat-informed cyber defense capability and cyber resilience. Built on cloud technology, CYBER RANGES applies high automation, high orchestration and high scalability to the delivery of
(Training Orchestration, Automation and Response), CYBER RANGES combines threat intelligence, next-generation
is available as subscription-based, as managed service, as on-premise with a portable rugged deployment option.
www.cyberranges.com
-
Media Contact Lisa Fasold, MITRE media@mitre.org
https://mitre-engenuity.org/blog/2022/04/19/mad-purple-teaming-initiatives-and-cyber-range/

LiveFIRE XC
The unique Cyber Security eXperiential Course for Individuals
and Teams TRAIN
PRACTICE RESPOND
ONLINE

LiveFIRE XC
POWERED BY NEXT-GEN

TECHNOLOGY

The digital transformation of communities, nations, industries, and firms relies on a competent cyber security workforce in order to tackle cyberattacks, including cyber fraud, rogue-State threats, espionage, hacktivism of all sorts.

Incident response teams and SOC analysts need to keep their knowledge, skills and abilities up to date with regard to the most relevant and current threats, in order to improve incident handling, teamwork, compliance, workflows, run-book usage, and other organizational capability.

LiveFIRE XC is a focused, 2-day, online, experiential, crash course that offers participants, already at intermediate/advanced level, the following opportunities:

to have access to a simulated infrastructure containing a number of systems, processes and applications as likely to be found in a typical corporate environment;

to experience the latest cyberattacks, which will be detonated through the CYBER RANGES Injector Engine, reproducing both the cyberattacks and the associated Indicators of Compromise (IoC);

to be trained on how to detect, prepare for and respond to the simulated attacks;

to receive an expert after-action review and debriefing about the sample solution;

to be provided with an opportunity to further discuss with peers and experts about the response to similar security incidents.

This is a unique opportunity for you to experience and handle a wide range of cyberattacks, while equipping you with the ability to sharpen your competence in detecting, investigating, mitigating and recovering from cyber events.

Course Director
Dr. Al Graziano is the CEO and Co-Founder of Silensec and an international field-hardened expert in large-scale cyber exercises.
Dr. Graziano has led on the ECSO* research on cyber ranges and authored the recent ECSO Paper on "Understanding Cyber Ranges, From Hype To Reality".
Silensec is also a Partner of the Global Cyber Alliance (GCA), based in NY, London and Brussels and focused on cooperation between industry and government in tackling cybercrime.
* European Cyber Security Organisation

LiveFIRE
LiveFIRE XC is delivered by our top-class simulation training instructors on our best-of-breed next-generation IT/OT simulation platform CYBER RANGES.

TRAINING AND SIMULATION 2

LiveFIRE XC
Training and Simulation
Solving the skills shortage in a time of growing cyber threats is one of the top priorities for Chief Information Security Officers. Add to the challenge the fact that most positions require advanced skills and on-the-job experience, and it is obvious why more and more organizations are leaning on cyber ranges as a way to overcome the growing capability deficit and prepare for the threats of tomorrow.
1
Training Set Up
CREATE
LiveFIRE XC gives participants expert advice on key concepts, tools, and best practices of cyber security defence. Knowledge is enhanced by hands-on practice to boost participants' experiential learning.
2
Scenario Running
SIMULATE
LiveFIRE XC offers participants the experience of live cyber attacks from the latest threat intelligence. Cyber attacks are safely and dynamically detonated in CYBER RANGES.
3
Performance
MEASURE
As an organization's digital infrastructure evolves, cyber security professionals need to work smart to maintain their competence and muscle memory. We at CYBER RANGES are here to help you.
4
Validation
ASSESS
CYBER RANGES provides a comprehensive set of granular metrics to validate participants' performance against NIST NICE and other criteria for the purposes of gaps analysis, technology validation, and overall cyber resilience.
TRAINING AND SIMULATION 3

LiveFIRE XC
The Course

LiveFIRE XC is delivered online or in presence over 2 days via our next-gen CYBER RANGES platform:

1 DAY

Tools and Methodologies for Incident Response and Threat Hunting
The participants will be prepared for live attack simulations. The participants will be given access to a realistic corporate environment, which they have to defend.
 Introduction to the target environment  Incident Response Process  Threat Hunting Tools and Methodologies  Cyber Threats and Threat Actors  MITRE ATT&CK® Framework

2 DAY

LiveFIRE Attacks
The participants will experience a number of cyberattacks simulating different threat actors with different motivations and capabilities. Different attacks will be simulated addressing different stages of the MITRE ATT&CK framework.

 Phishing attacks and Business Email Compromise  Ransomware attacks  Driveby malware  Data exfiltration  Insider Threats

On completion all the participants will receive a confidential individual performance report and a personal LiveFIRE XC Certificate of Completion.

www
Sample Stateful Attacks · Network scanning · Web defacement · Brute-force attacks · Denial of Service · Data Exfiltration · Ransomware · Phishing campaigns · Malware infection

Traffic Simulation Attack Simulation

Internet

Live Attacks

Firewall

SIEM

Internal Devices Firewall

Router

Firewall +ADS

Normal traffic

Anomalous traffic

Analyst

Active Diretory Sharepoint

Database Server FTP Server Mail Server

Honeypots

Red Team

Purple Team

Regional Training Editions on a Regular Calendar
Europe, Africa, GCC, Asia-Pacific, Americas

Blue Team

White Team

Custom-specified Training Editions on Request
for Organisations and Industry Associations

cyberranges.com/train-and-certify TRAINING AND SIMULATION 4

About Us

CYBER RANGES by Silensec is the globally recognized next-generation simulation platform for developing cyber capabilities through continuous, deep-dive, interactive user experiences. With an experienced team, a robust technology set-up, and an ever-improving platform, the CYBER RANGES vision is to become the cyber range of choice for realistic, hands-on cyber security dexterity, capability, and resilience development.

CYBER RANGES provides its customers with a suite of tools that deliver highly realistic simulation scenarios and increase the precision, variety and interactivity of training, cyber exercises and technology validation. CYBER RANGES performs live simulations of real IT/OT environments and helps cyber professionals progress in crisis situations in terms of intrusion, detection, network protection and incident response.

CYBER RANGES facilitates the testing of new products or configurations, as required in the development of advanced security systems to combat cyberattacks, which are increasing in both frequency and complexity. The CYBER RANGES cloud-technology based platform, both online and on-premise, enables users to conduct training and exercises, even of large scale and great complexity, at any time and from anywhere in the world.

EUROPEAN CYBER SECURITY ORGANISATION

We partner with

AMERICAN CYBER LEAGUE

USA Quantico Cyber Hub Suite 305, 1010 Corporate Drive Stafford, VA 22554  1-800-959-0163 (toll-free)
Canada Bankers Hall West 10th Floor, Suite 1000 888 3rd Street SW Calgary, AB T2P 5C5
UK Sheffield Technology Parks Cooper Buildings, Arundel Gate Sheffield South Yorkshire, S1 2NS  +44 (0) 114 2211868

Cyprus G & N Court 41 Pafou Street 3051 Limassol  +357 99 883356
Kenya Eldama Park Tsavo Wing Eldama Ravine Road, Westlands PO Box 25388 ­ 00100, Nairobi  +254 (0) 20 8071814
 contact@cyberranges.com  cyberranges.com

CYBER EXERCISES Resilience, Enhanced
Powering up your Cyber Drills with CYBER RANGES by Silensec
What is a Cyber Drill?
A Cyber Drill is a planned event of various formats, during which an organization simulates cyber attacks, information security incidents and other types of disruption.
With a Cyber Drill your organization can test its cyber capacity, capability and resilience by measuring its ability to detect, respond to and stand against security incidents of all types, minimizing any related impact.
Cyber Drill Simulations are delivered through different experiential scenarios that run in a secure environment that replicates, to a chosen degree of fidelity, the live or desired infrastructure of your organization.
A scenario is a self-contained piece of interactive content, which combines a storyline, a virtual infrastructure and applications, competency objectives, user activity, tasks to perform and challenges to deal with, ancillary contextual information assets, and much more. Scenarios may engage single or many users, be time-constrained and mapped against a number of criteria, such as competencies and performance indicators.
Since 2017 CYBER RANGES by Silensec has been supporting the delivery of all the Regional Cyber Drills organized by the United Nations' International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in collaboration with national regulatory authorities all over the world.
These Cyber Drills have engaged hundreds even thousands of delegates from national CERTs/CSIRTs, critical infrastructure operators, financial and telecom institutions.
The 6 scenario-based Exercises of the 2-week ITU Global Cyber Drills, engaging several hundred participants from more than 57 countries, have been carried out on CYBER RANGES.
Information Security Professionals
USA | Canada | UK | Cyprus | Kenya

© 2022 Silensec ­ All rights reserved.

Benefits of CYBER RANGES
Testing your organization's ability and validating its plans to respond to security incidents. Testing your organization's cyber resilience Assessing the cyber capacity and capabilities of a SOC team Assessing the competence of your organization's Red Team Complying with regulatory and best-practice requirements, e.g. from a Central Bank Testing the cyber proficiency of other Teams, e.g. Blue Team, DevOps, Comms, Legal Testing your team's current skill set and identifying any gaps and areas for improvement Evaluating your team's readiness and response reflexes against cyber attacks, when needed in combination of table-top, in-theatre or kinetic exercises Testing the coordination, communications and information sharing of internal and external teams, stakeholders, ecosystem partners, third parties and other entities Team building opportunities.
Cyber Drill Design

Choose from a wide range of realistic simulation environments, from simple environments with just a few systems (VMs) to more complex environments with dozens of systems to allow teams with different roles to
collaborate and/or compete against one another.

Customize your simulation environment, by choosing from an exhaustive library of commercial security
systems and applications, from pre-set environments to customizing these or even replicating your full inf rastructure.

© 2022 Silensec ­ All rights reserved.

Choose the attacks you want to simulate, from simple attacks exploiting a single vulnerability, to more
complex, sophisticated attacks simulating advanced threat vectors and exploiting both human and technical
vulnerabilities.

Choose the difficulty level, by turning each chosen attack into a search for the "needle in the haystack" by adding background user traffic, thousands of realistic
event logs, multiple parallel attacks from different countries and much more, depending on the skill
levels of the participants.

Silensec specializes in the delivery of Cross Cyber Drills (C2 Drills), where hands-on and table-top scenarios are simultaneously delivered to Operations and Management teams to simulate the overall effectiveness of information security processes, communications and responsibilities.

Cyber Drill Delivery
In a typical execution of a Cyber Drill powered by CYBER RANGES, the CYBER RANGES Injector Engine is responsible for the simulation and automation of a wide range of cyber attacks, user activities and background traffic.

The CYBER RANGES Injector Engine is also used by the White Team to inject live attacks and traffic during an active scenario. This increases the difficulty of the scenario against the performance of the participants.

Real attacks can be even carried out by an external Red Team connected to the CYBER RANGES simulation environment.

2

cyberranges.com

CYBER RANGES Features

SCENARIO BRIEFING

End-to-End Cyber Drill workflow

management o User registration and creation of

Simulated Events

Real Attacks

RED TEAM

teams

o Design, development and delivery of the Cyber Drill Scenarios
o Assessment of skills, cyber

Simulated Attacks & Traffic

INJECTOR ENGINE

capabilities and cyber resilience

Simulated Events

User Simulation

o Learning paths to skills gap and

cyber capability shortage

POST-DELIVERY REVIEW

remediation

Library of Cyber Drill Scenarios, design and development of Customer-specific Scenarios

Library of Attack Simulations to replicate the latest cyber threats

Seamless integration and support of Scenarios from Value-Added Third Parties.

CYBER RANGES for National Cyber Drills
National Cyber Drills are usually organized by a National Focal Point that brings together organizations from across the Nation's critical infrastructure.
With CYBER RANGES the organizing of Cyber Drills becomes streamlined and National Authorities leverage on the ability to easily plan the cost-effective execution of Cyber Drills at desired regular time intervals (every year down to every term or less) and to even organize multiple Cyber Drills by theme or industry sector.
CYBER RANGES offers Authorities the opportunity to obtain measurable outcomes and actionable assessment towards the continuous development of skills, cyber power and ultimately improvement of your stakeholders' cyber resilience. Through CYBER RANGES PORTABLE a Cyber Drill can be delivered to accommodate any location requirements (such as an oil rig, a military outpost, or a vessel at sea).

NT

CYBER RANGES ERNME PORTABLE
O NLY

Benefits of National Cyber Drills
Evaluating readiness and response abilities to coordinated cyber attacks across the Nation Assessing national cyber capabilities Raising awareness of the latest cyber threats Improving coordination, communications and sharing of cyber threat intelligence among national stakeholders.

GOV
© 2022 Silensec ­ All rights reserved.

Corporate Cyber Drills and Training
CYBER RANGES can be used to address the security training needs of any organization through corporate Cyber Drills, and to deliver company-specific hands-on training scenarios over a highly realistic replica of its live or desired IT, OT, ICS, IoT infrastructure.

Cyber Drills are used to assess the organization's cyber capabilities and cyber resilience at regular intervals while also identifying gaps in specific security domains.

cyberranges.com

3

Sample scenario formats include:

RED TEAM vs BLUE TEAM

In this corporate scenario type players are divided into two teams, simulating respectively the attackers (red team) and the defenders (blue team). This scenario type is ideal for testing and improving the communication and collaboration between an organization's cyber defence and offensive teams.

LIVE FIRE

In this scenario format participants are exposed to live attacks simulating different types of threat actors. The attacks are simulated automatically or live through the CYBER RANGES Injector Engine. This scenario is ideal for testing the detection and response capabilities of the SOC Team or for assessing the organization's cyber resilience against specific cyber attacks.

CAPTURE THE FLAG

This scenario type can be used to assess a wide range of hands-on security skills by targeting different security roles within the organization. Suck key roles being: Penetration Tester, SOC Analyst, Malware Analyst, Threat Hunter and more.

Each Scenario Type can be easily built on the replica of a specific corporate IT/OT environment in order to train teams for identifying and responding to specific attack vectors.

The typical application of a CYBER RANGES-powered Cyber Drill to a corporate setting is pictured next:

Simple Attacks
Easy Detection & Response

BEGINNER

INTERMEDIATE

ADVANCED

Red Team Operations & APTs Correlation Reverse Engineering Threat Hunting
EXPERT

CYBER DRILL

PRACTICE AND TRAINING

COMPETENCE ASSESSMENT PROCESSES AND TOOLS EVALUATION

Virtual Cyber Drills

A Virtual Cyber Drill is an online Cyber Drill with no need for a physical venue to hold activities in.

CYBER RANGES has proudly
powered up the United Nations'
ITU Global Cyber Drills

CYBER RANGES is the ideal platform for the delivery of Virtual Cyber Drills with a large number of participants, well above the typical industry average of 10-30 participants each time, and while ensuring a high-fidelity simulation experience.

The Planner's "Magnificent 7" Reasons to Host a Virtual Cyber Drill on CYBER RANGES:
1. CYBER RANGES HOSTED for the secure private access to the Cyber Drill scenarios and data 2. Customized Secure Cyber Drill Registration Page 3. Design and development of custom Cyber Drill scenarios 4. Integrated Webinar Technology for online Cyber Drill delivery and Expert Moderator tools 5. Live interactive experience of Scenarios and hands-on practice of the Cyber Drill scenarios, led and supervised by
field-hardened cyber security experts 6. Secure recording of the Cyber Drill Sessions for post-delivery playback 7. Expert Evaluation Report and Follow-on Consultancy.

© 2022 Silensec ­ All rights reserved.

For more information on how and when to organize your next Cyber Drill contact us or our Value-Added Partners at: contact@cyberranges.com

