Egress Defend

Stop inbound email attacks and empower employees to become security advocates

Phishing is the entrance point in the kill chain that external agents use to gain access to your critical information. More attackers are now able to circumvent traditional email security solutions by exploiting our chief vulnerability: human behaviour. Egress Defend has been shaped by GCHQ to provide advanced detection capabilities that stop phishing early. Armed with intelligent technologies that evaluate context and relationships, our solution prevents more inbound cyber threats, releases key resources to focus on other threats, and empowers your employees to become cyber advocates who can identify future breaches.
Stop phishing attacks
Stronger detection emulates a cyber expert when analysing a phishing email.
Empower employees
Clear and intuitive banners offer in the moment user learning.

Reduce admin overheads
Free up administrator bandwidth to focus on other critical work.
Avoid alert fatigue
Minimise the risk of users ignoring warnings altogether.

Emulate cyber expertise to strengthen your defence
Egress Defend reverse engineers phishing emails, breaking down and analysing all the sub-components for suspicious elements before delivering a final verdict. The technology investigates the email using zero trust models and evaluating content and context, looking at both positive and negative features in order to identify suspicious behaviour.
This allows the technology to detect the techniques used to deceive employees rather than the deceit itself, increasing the robustness and resilience of Egress Defend in the face of new and sophisticated attacks.

Securing
7 million
users every day

Empowering users to become security advocates
Egress Defend empowers users to become your first line of defence. An intuitive interface uses a clear and obvious heat-based warning system that immediately alerts them to a threat without distracting them from their workflow. The technology also explains why the phishing email is dangerous in plain human language, offering active learning for the user that reduces reliance on time-consuming and costly training programs.
In addition, Egress Defend provides a low banner percentage, in turn gaining the trust of the user and removing the risk of banner fatigue.

Top features 1 Behavioural and linguistic
analytics
2 Social graphing technologies 3 Real-time user warnings 4 Intuitive display panels 5 Additional prompt and alerts

Visit www.egress.com for more features.

LINGUISTICAL

Sign off Body Subject Display name

The ask Emotional manipulation
Impersonation

Open link Creating a sense of urgency
Microsoft Teams

Links

Free website builder

1

TECHNICAL

Invisible text

Garbage display none to break up text

META

Sender From address

Sent from Azure
Same as the recipient

Hide real location
Microsoft IP

For more information please contact your account manager or call 0203 987 9666

About Egress
Our vision is for a connected world in which people communicate efficiently and securely. To achieve this, we provide human layer security to protect individual users and stop breaches before they happen.

www.egress.com | info@egress.com | 0203 987 9666 |
 Egress Software Technologies Ltd 2021. 1373-1021

@EgressSoftware

Egress Prevent
Stop accidental and intentional email data breaches before they happen.

The nature of email security has changed. Today's digitally connected world and a 24/7/365 working culture means time-pressured employees are making more mistakes and putting sensitive data at risk. Emails to the wrong recipient(s) or containing the wrong content and attachments, phishing victims, and malicious exfiltration are just some of the human-activated threats that cause the majority of security breaches. We use contextual machine learning and advanced DLP to spot when employees are about to accidentally or intentionally leak data, empowering organisations to:
Prevent email data breaches
Send the right information to the right recipient(s), including personal data.
Enhance business efficiency
Prevent mistakes on the go with full mobile and OWA support.

Comply with global data privacy regulations
Ensure employees' use of email is compliant with regulations including GDPR.
Minimise human error
Avoid user fatigue with seamless interaction and user experience.

Using contextual machine learning to account for real-world risks
Employees' behaviour is unpredictable, meaning traditional, static approaches to data loss prevention (DLP) are unable to dynamically prevent breaches. Instead, we use contextual machine learning to inspect and continuously learn from a sender's behaviour - including who they're emailing, when, and with what content - so we can detect abnormal behaviour and prevent breaches of security before they happen. Our intelligent approach also minimises employee interruptions, so they're not frustrated with an avalanche of prompts.

Securing
1,000+
large organisations

Granted: EP3533184, US10911556, US11223695, GB2681188, US10911417, GB2581190, GB2581189, US11218379 Pending: EP 20186594.6, AUS 202019455, EP20703077.6, Singapore 11202108481X, AUS 2020218635, EP 20708550.7, Singapore 11202108482V, US16/749,580, AUS 2020219929, EP20708551.5, Singapore 11202108489T, US16/749,606, US17/535/135

Quantifying risk for measurable compliance
We provide administrators with quick, on-demand reporting that tracks sensitive data and pinpoints any threats to regulatory compliance. Our granular insights ensure you can detect at-risk employees who require frequent help with misdirected emails or might be attempting to intentionally exfiltrate sensitive information. In addition, our interactive timeline highlights where you have reduced instances of insecure data sharing to potentially unknown systems, improving compliance posture and demonstrating tangible ROI.
Detecting abnormal behaviour
We use contextual machine learning to spot abnormal behaviour that puts data at risk and apply dynamic protection by analysing four key areas:

Top features 1 Recipient and domain analysis 2 Email subject, body and
attachment analysis
3 Full mobile and OWA support
4 Integration with MS Outlook 5 Comprehensive reporting
Visit www.egress.com for more features.

Automated risk assessment
1. Recipient domain  Domain authenticity  DKIM / SPF  Historical analysis of secure
communications with domain
2. Sender history  History of communications with sender,
including all recipients emailed in the past
3. Recipient information  History of communications with recipient  Geographic and system information
about data access

Dynamic protection
Protection against misdirected emails Able to spot and provide guidance on incorrect recipients
Quantifiable risk assessment Provides numeric risk score within email client
Dynamically applied security Based on computed risk scores, dynamically applies appropriate protection, including Egress, TLS, Microsoft O365 OME, Voltage, Zix, Cisco, Virtru, etc.

4. Content analysis  Subject line and message body analysis  Assessment of attachment name / type  Analysis of data inside attachments

Protection of sensitive information Safeguards against the sharing of sensitive data with unauthorised recipients

For more information please contact your account manager or call 0203 987 9666
About Egress
Our mission is to eliminate the most complex cybersecurity challenge every organisation faces: insider risk. We understand that people get hacked, make mistakes, and break the rules. To prevent these human-activated breaches, we have built the only Human Layer Security platform that defends against inbound and outbound threats. Used by the world's biggest brands, Egress is private equity backed and has offices in London, New York, and Boston.
www.egress.com | info@egress.com | EgressSoftware
 Egress Software Technologies Ltd 2022. 1450-0322

Egress Protect

Intelligently secure emails and large files with the appropriate level of security.

Every employee has access to email. However, organisations still struggle to protect the sensitive data they share both internally and externally.
We offer easy-to-use, flexible email and file encryption that intelligently applies security in proportion to the risk of a data breach. As well as encrypting message content and attachments, we provide total control over shared information in real time, including email recall, audits of user actions, and message restrictions to prevent mishandling - enabling organisations to:
Secure data shared by email
Encrypt personally and commercially sensitive data, including using multi-factor authentication.
Stay in control
Maintain compliance with detailed audit logs, message restrictions, and real-time email recall.

Encourage user adoption
Share sensitive information from Office 365 and Outlook, and when using mobile devices.
End-to-end secure communication
It's free for recipients to communicate with your full subscribers.

Government and industry-certified data security
We provide government and industry-certified security and authentication for protecting email content and attachments, including large files, in transit and at rest. We also support multi-factor authentication, customisable policy control, and access to secure information via mobile devices.
Users stay in control of their information after it has been shared by recalling emails, preventing actions such as download and copy / paste, and viewing audit logs. We are certified under CCPA, Common Criteria and ISO 27001:2013.

Securing
1,000+
large organisations

Granted: GB2450197, RE45,047, RE45,046, GB2470008, GB2505375

Avoiding recipient pushback through flexible authentication
Authentication doesn't need to painful. Our flexible authentication techniques support your recipient's requirements by offering a range of ways to authenticate. The secure Egress portal offers traditional security by requiring recipients sign into their complimentary Egress account, while our shared secrets technique expects recipients to enter a password or unique identifier only known to them and the sender. And with one-click access, users can allow trusted partners to access sensitive emails securely without even authenticating, in turn removing friction from the process and enhancing their experience.
"Without Egress, we would have had to buy at least five different systems to meet our information sharing requirements."
HEAD OF INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AND SECURITY, HCA HEALTHCARE

Top five features 1 AES-256 bit encryption secures
data at rest and in transit
2 Email encrypted at the gateway
and the desktop
3 Supports single sign-on via MS
Active Directory using ADFS or other providers, such as SAML v2
4 Choice over data hosting 5 Flexible authentication
removes recipient friction
Visit www.egress.com for more features.

Email encryption and

file transfer made easy
We integrate with Microsoft

Authentication and administration UI

Outlook and Office 365 to provide

one-click email encryption, while

our powerful mobile apps allow for easy and secure data sharing

SENDER

on the go. We also enable users to

Send

encrypt large files when shared via

email

email, bypassing the usual Exchange / Exchange Online size limitations

EGRESS CLIENT APPS

EMAIL SERVER

and removing reliance on less

secure, free alternatives. Recipients

can reply to and initiate secure

emails and file transfers to Egress subscribers for free, keeping costs

Large les

down and encouraging user uptake.

Send email
Encrypted email

Egress Server Infrastructure
EGRESS KEY AND POLICY MANAGEMENT
Authentication and key management
EGRESS GATEWAY Encrypted email copy
ENCRYPTED DATA STORAGE

Key request and authentication
RECIPIENT
EGRESS CLIENT APPS
Secure web access

For more information please contact your account manager or call 0203 987 9666
About Egress
Our mission is to eliminate the most complex cybersecurity challenge every organisation faces: insider risk. We understand that people get hacked, make mistakes, and break the rules. To prevent these human-activated breaches, we have built the only Human Layer Security platform that defends against inbound and outbound threats. Used by the world's biggest brands, Egress is private equity backed and has offices in London, New York, and Boston.
www.egress.com | info@egress.com | EgressSoftware
 Egress Software Technologies Ltd 2022. 1450-0322

