Extended Security Posture Management

Managing your cybersecurity posture seems over-complex?
Every day brings changes to your security posture. Changes in the IT architecture modify the attack surface, configuration changes to security controls introduce unforeseen security gaps and new threats to avoid are introduced every day. It seems impossible to know how effective your security controls are right now, which digital assets are exposed, how the network can be penetrated and what requires fixing and what to prioritize. Penetration testing is not enough as by the time you get the reports they are outdated and irrelevant. Other alternatives may give you a current picture, but it would usually be partial. There is an effective and simple way to know you are secure, end-to-end.

Extended Security Posture Management Platform
For companies that want to manage their security posture against the evolving threat landscape. Cymulate SaaS-based Extended Security Posture Management (XSPM) platform deploys within minutes, enabling security professionals to continuously challenge, validate and manage the optimizing of their cyber-security posture end-to-end, across the MITRE ATT&CK® framework. The platform includes Breach and Attack Simulation (BAS) technology ranked #1 in innovation by Frost & Sullivan in the 2021 BAS RadarTM, Continuous Automated Red Teaming (CART) and the Advanced Purple Teaming Framework. The Cymulate platform provides out-of-the-box, expert and threat intelligence -led risk assessments that are simple to deploy and use for all maturity levels, and constantly updated. It also provides an open framework to create and automate purple and red AND purple teaming by generating penetration scenarios and advanced attack campaigns tailored to their unique environments and security policies. Cymulate allows professionals to manage, know and control their dynamic environment.

How it works
Cymulate facilitates managing your security posture 24X7X365 within minutes and based on facts, in just three simple steps:

1 Simulate Simulate attacks across any vector.

2 Evaluate Know where your company is exposed.

3 Remediate Fix your security gaps.

Key Capabilities

End-to-end validation - Cymulate continuously validates your security posture across the full attack kill chain: Reconnaissance, initial foothold, execution, command and control, lateral movement, and action on objective. It combines attack surface management (ASM), breach and attack simulation (BAS), continuous automated red-teaming (CART), advanced purple teaming and vulnerability prioritization to draw a baseline to optimize- all in one platform.

Actionable Analytics - the outcomes of every assessment are outlines in the management dashboard as well as in an executive and technical reports. The executive report summarizes the results and provides a score, and high-level countermeasure recommendations. It also compares the score to previous assessments and to the score of industry peers. The technical report provides a description of each individual test or finding together with a risk level and actionable remediation guidance.

In-depth validation - By mimicking the myriad of strategies and tools attackers deploy, the platform challenges your company's security controls with thousands of simulated attacks that cover the MITRE ATT&CK framework in-depth. This comprehensive validation assesses your company's true preparedness to handle cybersecurity threats effectively.

Vulnerability Prioritization ­ Integration with common third-party vulnerability management solutions including to cross-reference information on vulnerabilities with the results from Cymulate's validation platform, and offers a practical view of compensatory security controls over unpatched vulnerabilities in the network.

Security Risk Scoring - Cymulate security scoring provides a measurement of your company's security posture and the effectiveness of its security controls. The scoring system enables you to track and improve your security posture in addition to rationalizing security spend and the allocation of resources. The score is calculated using industry-recognized standards; the NIST Risk Management Framework, CSVSS v3.0 Calculator, Microsoft's DREAD and the MITRE ATT&CKTM Framework.

Customizable­ Extensible, open framework to create and automate red/purple team assessments and automate security assurance procedures as well as health checks that are unique to your environment and policies. In addition, create or customize existing templates to meet specific requirements.

Purple teaming automation ­ a framework that operationalizes the MITRE ATT&CK® framework to create, launch and automate custom attack scenarios. In addition to the extensive library provided out-of-the-box, security staff can craft or modify executions to create both simple and complex scenarios of atomic, combined, and chained executions. The module enables APT simulation, purple team exercises, incident response playbook exercises, pro-active threat hunting and automates assurance procedures and health checks.

Variety of Integrations ­ Cymulate integrations enable you to validate and improve SOC performance. Integrations with xDR/EDR and SIEM systems correlate attack simulations with detection, events and alerts for quick and easy validation. Integration with vulnerability management systems enable risk-based vulnerability management. It provides attack context to vulnerabilities and attack-path visualization of vulnerable machines to help prioritize remediation and patching efforts.

Extended Security Posture Management

Attack Surface Management

Initial Foothold

Execution & CnC

Network Propagation Action on Objectives

Attack Surface Manager

Email Gateway
Web Gateway
Web Application Firewall

Phishing Awareness

Endpoint Security

Lateral Movement

Immediate Threats

Full Kill-Chain APT

Purple Team

Data Exfiltration

Why Cymulate

Deploys in minutes, SaaS-Based

Broadest coverage across the full kill-chain

Vulnerability prioritization
guidance

Granular analytics

Very latest threats simulated with a few clicks

Comprehensive assessments
out-of-the-box

Highly customizable red team
automation

About Cymulate
With a Research Lab that keeps abreast of the very latest threats, Cymulate proactively challenges security posture end to end, automatically and continuously, allowing hyper-connected organizations in all maturity levels to avert damage and stay safe. Founded by an elite team of cyber researchers with world-class experience in offensive cyber solutions, Cymulate is trusted by hundreds of companies worldwide, from small businesses to large enterprises, including leading banks and financial services. They share our vision to be the gold standard for security professionals and leaders to manage, know and control their CyberSecurity Posture. Today it's simple for anyone to protect their company with the highest levels of security. Because the simpler cybersecurity is, the more secure your company-and every company-will be.

Contact us for a live demo, or get started with a free trial Start Your Free Trial
Headquarters: 2 Nim Blvd., Rishon LeZion, 7546302, Israel | +972 3 9030732 | info@cymulate.com | US Office: +1 212 6522632

