Secure Design At Scale

MEETING THE NEEDS OF SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT
Keen observers will have noted an uptick in activity around threat modeling within the information security community recently with new tools being released and strategies and methodologies being discussed on social media; culminating in a week-long threat modeling track at the Open Security Summit. (Formally OWASP Summit).

AS A SECURITY MANAGER,
you need your team to scale. Demands placed on you are more intense than ever before, and you need to help every development team understand how to build security into their applications from the start.
AS A DEVELOPMENT MANAGER,
you need to be sure that security doesn't become a bottleneck for your projects. The business isn't willing to wait for delivery. You need to build secure apps ­ but build them faster.

FOR THE SECURITY TEAM,
IriusRisk provides a single point to define secure design patterns and manage Threat Models throughout the entire development process. You can quickly define diagrams using draw.io, generate threat models and push security tasks to ALM tools.
FOR DEVELOPMENT,
IriusRisk automatically generates a threat model with recommended and required countermeasures and adds them to your issue tracker, like Jira and Microsoft TFS/Azure DevOps, so you can address security just like any other task.

Whether you're in development or security, IriusRisk helps you design security into your software and applications from the start.

01

ADAPTABLE TO YOUR PROCESS
IriusRisk supports flexible workflow definition and automation, so that it can adapt to your existing processes:
THE SECURITY TEAM
reviews and modifies the threat model and decides on the risk treatment. Then they upload the security requirements to the issue tracker for assignment to the develop- ment team.
OR DEVELOPERS
define the architecture by drawing a draw.io diagram and complete a questionnaire, and IriusRisk automatically generates the security requirements and adds them to an issue tracker. This lets developers identify and implement important security work without involving the security team.
02

A COMBINATION OF BOTH:
Developers focus on implementing requirements and the security team continuously monitors and adjusts the risk response, pushing new requirements to issue trackers as needed.
HOW DOES IT WORK?
WORKFLOW FOR THE SECURITY TEAM:
· Security Champion reviews the threat model that IriusRisk generates. They can add new threats, weaknesses or countermeasures; or remove those that are not applicable.
· A security standard is then applied to the model ­ either based on the provided OWASP ASVS, PCI DSS, EU GDPR standards, or a customized standard, specific to the organization.
· They decide on the risk treatment for any untreated risks. IriusRisk provides guidance on risk treatment by highlighting the countermeasures with a high return on investment: Low cost countermeasures that mitigate high risk threats.
· Finally, they can push the requirements to Jira (or other issue trackers), or manage them from within IriusRisk.
· As the development team works, IriusRisk continuously monitors the countermeasure state from the issue tracker and adjusts the level of risk accordingly. The security team monitors the countermeasures and risks through IriusRisk to decide whether actions should be taken.
WORKFLOW FOR DEVELOPERS:
· Development team answers questions in a questionnaire to define the architecture and security context of the application. The questionnaire is tailored for each application and only displays relevant questions.
· When the questionnaire is completed, IriusRisk automatically generates a threat model with recommended countermeasures.
03

· Developers apply a security standard, which turns the recommended countermeasures into requirements. This can be a bespoke standard developed by the security team, or one of the bundled standards like the OWASP ASVS and PCI DSS.
· The developer specifies the issue tracker project details and IriusRisk uploads the new requirements to the issue tracker.
· From here, countermeasures are just like any other project feature, and developers continue using their normal workflow in the issue tracker.
FOR TESTERS
IriusRisk provides two types of tests: tests for the presence of countermeasures ­important for auditing purposes - and tests for the presence of weaknesses. ­ important for penetration testers or red teams. · Auditors and functional testers can use the list of tests for countermeasures
to verify that specified countermeasures are in place. · Penetration testers can use the list of weakness tests to test for the presence
of weaknesses, in addition to their usual testing methodologies. This provides them with a checklist of tests to run.
04

CUSTOMIZE AND EXTEND

IriusRisk generates its threat model based on the content of the following data sets: 1. The architectural diagram and dataflows. 2. Information provided by the answers to the questionnaires. 3. The rules that determine which Risk Patterns are applicable. 4. Libraries of Risk Patterns that contain the Threats, Weaknesses, Countermeasures and Tests.
All of the data sets are configurable and editable in the system. This allows a completely customizable threat

model to be generated. Both the questionnaire and risk rules use the JBoss Drools rules engine to allow complex questionnaires and rules to be created.
IriusRisk also includes a built- in graphical rules editor that provides an even easier way for users to create common rules. The data for all components: - Diagrams, Questionnaires, Rules and Libraries can be imported and exported from the system in an open format (Draw.io, JBoss Drools and XML respectively).

05

COMMON QUESTIONS
Does IriusRisk only generate security requirements? In addition to security requirements, IriusRisk also generates the threat model that justifies those requirements. This provides a more complete view of the security context so that the security team can make informed decisions about how to treat the risk.
Is a risk rating a static measure? No. IriusRisk manages security risks and plans risk mitigation while continuously adjusting the risk rating based on the status of implemented countermeasures and the results of security tests. This gives security teams constant feedback on which risks and countermeasures to prioritise.
How is IriusRisk licensed? IriusRisk is licensed per managed application. The number of users is unlimited for all editions, so every member of your organization who cares about security can participate in making your software more secure.
Can IriusRisk be customized for my organization? Yes. All the threat, countermeasure, questionnaires and rules are 100% editable and customizable. You can even export all this content in open formats, so

that your investment in customization is never trapped in a proprietary format.
Do threat models only exist for a single application? No, threat models can be stored as Templates for easy re-use by other applications, and changes to these templates can be propagated to all applications that use that template.
How does user security work? IriusRisk uses a flexible roles and permissions-based access control system. This allows teams to use a granular user permission system to assign only the required permissions to required users.
Can IriusRisk fit into our existing security workflow/process? Yes. A highly customizable workflow system allows teams to map security activities onto the development workflow, and to filter applications based on their workflow state.
Does IriusRisk support my issue tracking system? Yes. IriusRisk integrates with Jira, Microsoft TFS, Azure DevOps, Rally and Redmine. We regularly expand our list of supported integrations, too. If the system you use is not currently supported, let us know and we will work with you to add support for it.

06

www.iriusrisk.com getintouch@iriusrisk.com

www.iriusrisk.com | getintouch@iriusrisk.com
Threat Modeling for IEC 62443
IriusRisk helps engineers and security analysts to quickly understand the security threats that apply to the design of a system. The IEC 62443 Library extends this functionality with threats and controls relevant to this standard and to Industrial Control Systems security. Specifically, it covers: Network and System Security (part 3-3), and Security for Industrial Automation and Control Systems (part 4-2).
The IEC 62443 Security Standard Library is ideal for:
· Businesses that need to comply, build, and design according to IEC62443 standards. · Manufacturers of network and industrial control systems, such as PLCs, controllers, sensors, etc. · Teams responsible for maintenance of industrial control systems throughout the SDLC. · Operational technology industries, such as rail and transport, power stations, petrochemicals, water, recycling, metal and fabric manufacturing. · Medical technology and healthcare providers.
Build secure devices and measure your IEC 62443 compliance
ACHIEVE YOUR TARGET SECURITY LEVEL (SL-T) Gain full visibility of your current security level and identify the specific controls required to achieve your target security level. Produce your security requirements near-instantly using our 27 independently-configured components to remediate threats.
NAVIGATE ELEVATED SECURITY LEVELS WITH EASE Teams that require an elevated security level can simply move components to a higher security level within the threat model diagram and any additional, relevant threats and controls will be automatically included in the generated threat model.
DEFINE YOUR REQUIREMENTS FOR SYSTEM DESIGN IriusRisk defines the mandatory controls for each of your components to help you achieve the appropriate technical capabilities required for system design. It will naturally complement the risk assessment process, gap analysis reports, vulnerability and criticality assessments, plus your security zone and conduit models.

Flexible, configurable, and designed to facilitate your entire IEC 62443 process
The library has three model formats to help you get the most from threat modeling automation
Common standard library
Components are dropped onto the desired security level and your threats and countermeasures are automatically generated.
User-configurable library
A blank slate for complete customization depending on your requirements. Build your own architectural questionnaires or templates to generated to suit your requirements.

Library with pre-defined architectural questionnaires
Propose a pre-defined set of questions and generate a ruleset for user input.

www.iriusrisk.com | getintouch@iriusrisk.com

www.iriusrisk.com | getintouch@iriusrisk.com
ADVANCED ANALYTICS AND REPORTING
As your successful adoption of threat modeling increases, so will your needs. You will begin to identify your organization's own unique requirements for handling, reporting, and analyzing data. IriusRisk meets these challenges with its advanced analytics and reporting capabilities - designed to help you do more with your data.
Advanced Analytics and Reporting is ideal for:
· Larger organizations that have greater data analysis and reporting needs. · Threat modeling champions that need to see and share adoption trends. · Security architects, developers, and threat modelers that want to access and analyze enhanced data associated with their products and threat models. · Cybersecurity professionals that need access to specific data to satisfy governance, compliance, and auditory requirements.

We help you do more with your data
POWERFUL, CONFIGURABLE DASHBOARDS Leveraging all of the information stored within your IriusRisk instance, you will gain valuable and actionable insights into your threat modeling data via real-time, editable dashboards. Create effective visualizations out-of-thebox to present your and communicate your data, including line charts and heatmaps, or create custom visualizations using Javascript, HTML, and CSS.

AUTOMATED, SCHEDULED REPORTING Benefit from both on-demand and scheduled PDF reports generated using your real-time dashboards and demonstrate the value of your threat modeling efforts with stakeholders, with ease. Share directly to a Slack channel, by webhook, or a pre-authenticated URL.
ENRICH DATA WITHIN YOUR EXISTING TOOLSTACK Use customizable APIs to integrate with your cybersecurity toolstack. Have your threat modeling data available alongside your other vital data sources.

Demonstrate threat modeling ROI
With advanced analytics and reporting, you can create dashboards that demonstrate value to your stakeholders. · Import your full product list from your CMDB to show growth in adoption over time.
· Demonstrate how threat modeling is reducing cybersecurity risk over time.
· Identify the teams leading the way in adoption and contributing to threat model creation.
· See where your threats and countermeasures are coming from.
Share the right data, with the right people, at the right time.
IriusRisk enables you to build and share custom reports tailored to your use cases.
· Build dashboards that can export your data as branded PDF reports.
· Schedule automatic report generation and sharing via email, Slack, or webhooks.
· Filter the data to show what stakeholders need to know.
· Fully customizable widgets let you show the data in any format you want.
Fully integrate your threat modeling data into your security ecosystem
· Leverage the data generated by IriusRisk and present it in actionable formats to provide real insights.
· Make IriusRisk information available in new, compelling ways, such as Slack, to aid and increase consumption.
· Access your datasets through APIs directly from your systems.
· Pull in data from other data sources such as Elastic, Apache Hive, Snowflake, Salesforce, REST APIs, and many more.
www.iriusrisk.com | getintouch@iriusrisk.com

