Right Access

For Right People



To Right Systems

Identity Management
Software Pricing

Software Subscription

IDHub Teams $6 Per User, Per Month Self-Hosted Via Docker Deployment. 25 User Minimum. Free Trial available.

IDHub Enterprise $1 - $6 Per User, Per Month Self-Hosted Via Kubernetes Deployment. 500 User Minimum. Free Trial available.

IDHub Cloud $6 Per User, Per Month Hosted Via Google Deployment. No User Minimum. Free Trial available.
Implementation Service
IDHub Support ­ Custom Implementation $5K+ Customized Planning, Setup, And Implementation By Sath Experts.
Support Services
IDHub Support ­ Priority Support $600 / 8 Hours IDHub Identity Management Software ­ Hourly Technical Support.
IDHub Support ­ Dedicated Suport - Contact For Pricing 24/7 365 Expert Support With High Response Time And Elevated Scope.
IDHub Support ­ Managed Services - Contact For Pricing Managed Services Offers Complete Control And Management Of IDM Systems.
Sath Inc. is a 20-year veteran in the Cyber Security and Identity Management industry. We are an Information Security products software developer focused on securing our clients' organizations from cyber-threats ­ internal and external. © 2022 Sath Inc. All rights reserved. Sath, IDHub, and "Right Access To Right People For Right Systems" are registered trademarks of Sath, Inc.

How This Utility Company Saved 2400 IT Support Hours

This client has thousands of employees and millions of customers.
They needed to modernize and enhance their existing Identity Management Platform.

Certify and
maintain strict
NERC standards

Maintaining security, privacy, and efficiency are paramount to this company's values.

Before IDHub was a product, Sath was busy building custom solutions.
Many Sath clients inspired the creation of IDHub, but this one stood out.
This project's success made it clear that improvements in Identity Management were needed across the board, and could be achieved.

The Problems

User Control Of Applications

1

Department Managers want to view and modify employee access to Apps they administer without

logging into Apps individually.

Compliance

2

All updates or additions must be able to be certified and adhere to all NERC strict standards. Managers

would like to certify Apps from the same location.

Implementation Is Time Intensive

3

The client regularly adds new Apps. They have ~ 600 currently to connect to a new tool. Usually,

on-boarding a new App takes up to four hours each.

Can't Be A One Time Solution

4

The solution needs to be permanent, allowing Users to add new Apps to their IAM system, and continuously

monitor their applications and user privileges.

The Process
To accomplish all of these requests, we immediately recognized a new stand-alone application would need to be created from scratch.
Our team went to work.
We compiled a list of requirements needed to overcome the challenges faced building this new solution.

1.
2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

The Solution
We gathered the business requirements and designed a new system from the ground up. This system would incorporate all of the business requests into a new application. This interface would be available to all users, through a secure Single Sign-On screen.
User Interface
User Control
Workflow Engine
Compliance
Single Sign-On
Bulk Upload

The Results

1

The time it takes to add a new App to the IAM system was reduced by 94%, from 4

hours to 10 Minutes.

94%
Faster On-boarding

2

Adding the capability for managers and leads, to view and edit all of their

employee's access, cut out the need to

involve the IT department for frequent

access updates, and changes.

2400 3

The bulk uploading system allowed 600 applications to be uploaded, in a total of

10 minutes, down from 4 hours each. This

feature saved 2,400 IT hours, and will

Support Hours Saved

continue with every new on-board.

Sath Inc. is a 16-year veteran in the Cyber Security and Identity Management industry. We are an international Information Security products and services firm focused on securing our clients' organizations from cyber-threats ­ internal and external.
© 2021 Sath Inc. All rights reserved. Sath, IDHub, and "Right Access For Right People To Right Systems" are registered trademarks of Sath,

What sets IDHub apart from other IAM systems?

Manager, Access Control
Administrators can handoff control of all requests for access or entitlements to application owners and managers.
Empower your managers with daily decisions, updates, and changes, helping take the burden off of the IT department.

No more IT for
simple Access control
Accounting Manager

A New Position!

Instant Role Updates
Any change to a user's role will trigger IDHub to automatically grant and revoke all appropriate access, rights, and permissions associated with each of the roles.

Termination Response
Every user is assigned a proxy, which will take on that user's responsibilities immediately, in the event of a sudden change in employment.
Additionally, schedualed audits can be implemented to continuously scan for employment status of all users on any schedule you determine.

Service Request Management System
This customizable system provides users the ability to request office equipment, maintenance, or any other task or service needed.

Create Shareable Lists
Every requestable resource can be added to a list of requests for frequent request groupings.
Access rights, Entitlements, Roles, or Service Requests can all be combined and added and saved to a list to be shared with other users.

NAeSUdRewMdsSoreieovtlrievrUioAecvnRcesiWacceeleReoq2srres7uRk"qTsMeeMtousaqeoMttauinsoaeritnrtskoktteroetinntegiwnRlogolceaLtiiosnt
UACsScAreSeeccreraceavretscevsicscsiGeceRBsoesaeoRdtgRqeogleeuqeAqeUudFussooeetrbesreBstAutCcillcodouiundngt2

State Action
Node

Drag and Drop Workflow Creation
Administrators, managers, and application owners can design
their own simple, or complex processes and workflows; no
coding is required.

Customized Certifications
Automatically certify user access by user or resource.
Use conditional rule queries to target highly specific lists, or certify high risk users according to your defined rules or the built in high risk filters.

Is Active New York Office Accounting Admin Access
START

Scheduled Actions
Schedule automatic certifications, reconciliations, audits, custom
workflows, or reminder emails for unfulfilled tasks, or any other
customized notification needed.
Want to see what else ... IDHub Can Do?
Schedule a demo with us today!
SCHEDULE NOW
https://sath.com/demo
Sath Inc. is a 16-year veteran in the Cyber Security and Identity Management industry. We are an international Information Security products and services firm focused on securing our clients' organizations from cyber-threats ­ internal and external. © 2021 Sath Inc. All rights reserved. Sath, IDHub, and "Right Access For Right People To Right Systems" are registered trademarks of Sath,

