DATA S H E E T:
eSentire Managed Risk Programs
Take Control of Cyber Risk

Identify potential blind spots
Alleviates resource constraints in your
עץךהסל‎הקלעס

Build a strategy against associated risk
An enterprise-level information security ףץעךץהנתלקכצקץעסך ףעןלזלטצהסחףץעזטחרץטצ

Operationalize mitigation capabilities
Meet and exceed זענףןלהסזטץטפרלץטנטסקצ

Measure and adapt to objectives and the threat landscape
Align business objectives תלקכערץרסלפרטץלצמ הסחטףעצרץט

Test, assess, and measure cyber resilience
Get ahead and stay ahead טטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמהחשלצעץףץעךץהנצכטןףערףץעהזקלשטןלחטסקליךהףצהסחעףףעץקרסלקלטצקעצקץטסךקכטסערץצטזרץלקףעצקרץט
גערךהלסשלצלולןלקעיףעקטסקלהןוןלסחצףעקצהצתטהצצטצצקכטנהקרץלקעיערץזוטץצטזרץלקףץעךץהנהסחלקצהןלךסנטסקקעערץ ורצלסטצצךעהןצהסחזענףןלהסזטנהסחהקטצגערתלןןצטטערץזוטץץלצמלננטחלהקטןץטחרזטהצערץטףטץקקטהננלקלךהקטצלחטסקלטח שרןסטץהולןלקלטצהסחורלןחצהסעףקלנהןזוטץצטזרץלקצקץהקטךוהצטחעסערץורצלסטצצצלסחלשלחרהןףץעןטהסחעףטץהקלעסהןזהףהולןלקלטצ
־סםעףטהזטעינלסחתלקכזעסקלסרערצזוטץצטזרץלקקטצקלסךלסזןרחלסךטנףןעטטצטזרץלקהתהץטסטצצקץהלסלסךףןרצכהשטקכטזעסחטסזט קכהקערץרסלפרטקכץטהקלסקטןןלךטסזטמטטףצערהכטהחעיטנטץךלסךזוטץקכץטהקצ
אכטץטשטץערהץטעסערץצטזרץלקםערץסט¢ורלןחלסךיץענקכטךץערסחרףעץתעץמלסךקעקטצקהסחכהץחטסחטיטסצטצהךהלסצקקכטנעצק החשהסזטחזוטץהקקהזמטץצ¢טטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמףץעךץהנצתלןןכטןףערורלןחהנעץטץטצףעסצלשטצטזרץלקעףטץהקלעסקעחה

Service Components
eSentire Managed Risk Managed Vulnerability Service
eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment - Security Policy Guidance - Security Incident Response Planning ¡טזרץלקץזכלקטזקרץטטשלטת - Vulnerability Management Program - Vendor Risk Management Program

Description
· Included in all eSentire Risk Advisory and Managed Prevention programs · Routine scanning of internal and external vulnerabilities delivered as an ongoing service · Dedicated experts deliver actionable reporting and advice to remediate
critical vulnerabilities and keep your organization safe ¬ּע¡נהסהךטחטלולןלקךלשטצערקכטהולןלקקעץרסערץעתסהחכעזצזהסצהסח
ץטףעץקלסךהצערצטטק
· Align your security strategy, business objectives and risk ¬טטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡לץקרהןּׂ״₪שּׂ״¥ףץעךץהנצקףלזהןןוטךלסתלקכקכטטזרץלק
Program Maturity Assessment · Additional components added based on need and context ¬ֽטןלשטץטחוהסהנטחטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡לץקרהןּׂ״₪שּׂ״¥ץטצערץזטתכעוטזענטצ
an extension of your team
www.esentire.com

Service Components

Description

כלצכלסךהסחטזרץלקתהץטסטצצץהלסלסך
טטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡טזכסלזהןטצקלסך (internal and/or external)
Red Team Exercise
כץטהקחשלצעץלטצ ־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך

¬װטטףערץטנףןעטטצרף¡קע¡חהקטתלקכקכטטשעןשלסךקכץטהקןהסחצזהףט ¬טצקהסחקץהזמקכטלץףץעךץטצצתלקכצלנרןהקטחףכלצכלסךטטץזלצטצ
· A simulated attack to test your current defense measures and identify תטהמסטצצטצלסערץטקטץסהןעץלסקטץסהןצטזרץלקףעצקרץט
¬ײעץטלס¡חטףקכקכהסהףטסטקץהקלעסקטצק ¬צלנרןהקלעסעיהסהחשהסזטחקכץטהקהזקעץקעקטצקערץעץךהסל‎הקלעסצףץטשטסקלעס
detection and response capabilities
¬׳עקלזהקלעסציץענטטסקלץטצקכץטהקלסקטןןלךטסזטקטהנעסטנטץךלסךקכץטהקצהסח ץטזעננטסחהקלעסצעסכעתקעהחחץטצצקכטנ
¬גערץסהנטחטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡לץקרהןּׂ״₪שּׂ״¥תעץמצתלקכערקעזץטהקט executive-level materials to demonstrate success and progression

Managed Risk Programs
טטסקלץטעטץצנרןקלףןטײהסהךטחלצמטץשלזטצקהלןעץטחקעערץורצלסטצצסטטחצהסחחטצלךסטחקעכטןףערץעץךהסל‎הקלעס ףץעהזקלשטןלחטסקליךהףצהסחץטסטערץצטזרץלקצקץהקטךאטץטזעננטסחהץטךרןהץזהחטסזטעיצטזרץלקהצצטצצנטסקצ הסחקטצקלסךקעזעסקלסרטקענהקרץטערץףץעךץהנהסחכהץחטסערץחטיטסצטצ

Included Services

Core Essentials ּענףץטכטסצלשטהסחעסךעלסךשרןסטץהולןלק נהסהךטנטסקזענולסטחתלקכהקכעץערךכ הצצטצצנטסקעיערץעץךהסל‎הקלעסצזוטץץלצמ
Measure and Engage Take stock of your current defenses and employee risk in addition to ongoing vulnerability management and overall ץלצמצקץהקטך
Mature and Direct חחלקלעסהןהסחנעץטיץטפרטסקצטץשלזטצהץטadded for a granular calculation of your organization's זוטץץלצמהסחצטזרץלקףעצקרץט
Harden and Secure Put your organization's defense and response זהףהולןלקלטצקעקכטקטצקעןלחליערץצקץהקטך הסחצקהעסקעףעיקכטזעסצקהסקןטשעןשלסך קכץטהקןהסחצזהףט

eSentire Managed Risk - Managed Vulnerability Service
eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment
־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך
eSentire Managed Risk - Managed Vulnerability Service
כלצכלסךהסחטזרץלקתהץטסטצצץהלסלסך
External Penetration Test eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment כץטהקחשלצעץלטצ
־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך eSentire Managed Risk - Managed Vulnerability Service כלצכלסךהסחטזרץלקתהץטסטצצץהלסלסך External Penetration Test eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment
הסחזכעעצטעסטעיקכטיעןןעתלסך ¡טזרץלקעןלזטשלטת - Security Incident Response Planning ¡טזרץלקץזכלקטזקרץטטשלטת - Vulnerability Management Program - Vendor Risk Management Program כץטהקחשלצעץלטצ ־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך eSentire Managed Risk - Managed Vulnerability Service כלצכלסךהסחטזרץלקתהץטסטצצץהלסלסך ־קטץסהןטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡טזכסלזהןטצקלסך ׂסקטץסהןטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡טזכסלזהןטצקלסך eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment
הסחזכעעצטקכץטטעיקכטיעןןעתלסך ¡טזרץלקעןלזטשלטת - Security Incident Response Planning ¡טזרץלקץזכלקטזקרץטטשלטת - Vulnerability Management Program - Vendor Risk Management Program כץטהקחשלצעץלטצ ־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך

Delivery Frequency
Ongoing Annual
Annual Ongoing Annual Annual ססרהןרףחהקטחפרהץקטץן Ongoing Annual Ongoing Semi-annual Semi-annual
ססרהןרףחהקטחפרהץקטץן
Ongoing Annual Ongoing Quarterly Quarterly Semi-annual
ססרהןרףחהקטחפרהץקטץן
Ongoing Annual

www.esentire.com

Managed Risk Programs cont.
Harden and Wargame רקערץעץךהסל‎הקלעסקעקכטרןקלנהקטקטצק תלקכהסהחחטחץטחקטהנטטץזלצטהסחורלןחה זענףץטכטסצלשטזוטץצטזרץלקצקץהקטךקכהק טזטטחצקכטוטצקלס¡זןהצצףץעךץהנצ

Included Services
eSentire Managed Risk - Managed Vulnerability Service כלצכלסךהסחטזרץלקתהץטסטצצץהלסלסך ־קטץסהןטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡טזכסלזהןטצקלסך ׂסקטץסהןטטסקלץטײהסהךטחלצמ¡טזכסלזהןטצקלסך Red Team Wargame
eSentire Managed Risk - Virtual CISO (vCISO) - Security Program Maturity Assessment ¡טזרץלקעןלזטשלטת - Security Incident Response Planning ¡טזרץלקץזכלקטזקרץטטשלטת - Vulnerability Management Program - Vendor Risk Management Program
כץטהקחשלצעץלטצ ־טזרקלשטֻץלטסך

Delivery Frequency Ongoing Quarterly Quarterly Semi-annual Annual
ססרהןרףחהקטחפרהץקטץן
Ongoing Annual

Why eSentire

טטסקלץטצףץעךץהנציעץנהסהךלסךץלצמלסקטךץהקטהסחהףףןףץהזקלזהןלסקטןןלךטסזטקעטסצרץטערץעץךהסל‎הקלעסלצ ףץעקטזקטחהךהלסצקקכטןהקטצקקכץטהקצהסחזענףןלהסזטנהסחהקטצחטץלשטחיץענ

- eSentire's Global Security Operations Center



₪״ּ¥תכלזככרסקצהסחסחצקכץטהקצקכהק

evade preventative measures via our

MDR services

- Lessons learned from eSentire's Penetration טצקטץצהסחטחטהנקכהקסחסטתהסח טןרצלשטתהצקעוץטהמלסקעזןלטסקסטקתעץמצ

¡טטסקלץטצכץטהקטצףעסצטסלק₪¥ חלךציעץקכטןהקטצקקטזכסלפרטצקהזקלזצהסח ףץעזטחרץטצרצטחוקעחהצקכץטהקהזקעץצ
- Lessons collected from eSentire's Strategic ּעסצרןקלסךטהנקכהקכטןףצעץךהסל‎הקלעסצכהץחטס קכטלץורצלסטצצהסחצצקטנצלסץטצףעסצטקעקכט טשעןשלסךקכץטהקןהסחצזהףט

Managed Detection and Response Threat Response Unit (TRU) Red Team Engagements Strategic Consultations Security Operations Center Penetration Testers

APPLIED INTELLIGENCE

Risk Managment Programs

If you're experiencing a security incident or breach contact us 1-866-579-2200
טטסקלץט לצ קכט רקכעץלק לס ײהסהךטח ֽטקטזקלעס הסח טצףעסצט ףץעקטזקלסך קכט זץלקלזהן חהקה הסח הףףןלזהקלעסצ עי !"  עץךהסל‎הקלעסצ לס '% זערסקץלטצ ץטףץטצטסקלסך#%לסחרצקץלטציץענמסעתסהסחרסמסעתסזוטץקכץטהקצֿערסחטחלס" !קכטזענףהסצנלצצלעסלצקעכרסקלסשטצקלךהקטהסחצקעףזוטץקכץטהקצ וטיעץטקכטוטזענטורצלסטצצחלצץרףקלסךטשטסקצּענולסלסךזרקקלסך¡טחךטנהזכלסטןטהץסלסךבֽקטזכסעןעך"$¦'כץטהקׁרסקלסךהסחףץעשטסצטזרץלק עףטץהקלעסצןטהחטץצכלףטטסקלץטנלקלךהקטצורצלסטצצץלצמהסחטסהוןטצצטזרץלקהקצזהןטכטטהנטטסקלץטחלטץטסזטנטהסצטסקטץףץלצטצהץטףץעקטזקטח ו קכט וטצק לס קכט  ורצלסטצצ תלקכ ה סהנטח ּוטץ לצמ חשלצעץ "$¦' הזזטצצ קע ״ּ ּוטץ סהןצקצ  ־ןלקט כץטהק ׁרסקטץצ הסח לסחרצקץ¡ןטהחלסך קכץטהק לסקטןןלךטסזטץטצטהץזכיץענ טטסקלץטצ כץטהק טצףעסצט סלק ₪¥ טטסקלץט ףץעשלחטצ ײהסהךטח לצמ ײהסהךטח ֽטקטזקלעס הסח טצףעסצט הסח ׂסזלחטסק טצףעסצטצטץשלזטצֿעץנעץטלסיעץנהקלעסשלצלקwww.esentire.comהסחיעןןעת@eSentire

DATA S H E E T:
Managed Detection and Response
Build a more responsive security operation to put your business ahead of disruption.

Full Threat Visibility & Investigation
See the complete picture of your attack surface with
multi-signal intelligence enabling deeper correlation
and investigation capabilities, proven to contain threats faster.

24/7 Threat Hunting & Disruption
ֻטזעסחטסקערץט continuously protected by our SOC Analysts and Elite Threat Hunters who rapidly
investigate, contain and close down threats when an automated response
לצסקףעצצלוןט

Atlas XDR Cloud Platform
Stay ahead of new and emerging threats with כלךכחטןלקחטקטזקלעס and automated real-time threat disruption powered by unique intelligence from across our global customer community.

Rapid, Robust Response
See even the most advanced threats disrupted, isolated and stopped with a Mean
Time to Contain of less than 15 minutes. We detect
in seconds and contain in minutes so your business
is never disrupted.

Original Threat Intelligence
Add world class threat researchers to your team to hunt the most advanced undetected threats. Our Threat Response Unit (TRU) delivers original research, curates threat intelligence and builds new detection models to ensure you stay
ahead of attackers.

An Attack On You Is An Attack On Us
We stand with you, every moment of every day and push boundaries, to keep you ahead. With hybrid working and cloud-services expanding your threat surface, cybercriminals becoming increasingly sophisticated and security expertise harder than ever to find, we understand how challenging it has become to protect your businesses from disruption.
To respond fast and mitigate business risk, you need complete visibility and coverage of your cyberattack surface which we uniquely deliver through our multi-signal approach to MDR. Our powerful Atlas XDR Platform ingests network, cloud, log, endpoint and insider threat signals, correlating indicators of compromise to detect, respond and automatically disrupt threats in minutes - with a Mean Time to Contain of less than 15 minutes. Our 24/7 SOC Analysts and Elite Threat Hunters rapidly respond to investigate, contain and stops threats the Atlas XDR Platform senses have the potential to bypass automated security controls.

www.esentire.com

Features
Not All MDR is Created Equal. eSentire Managed Detection and Response includes:

24/7 Always-on Monitoring 24/7 Live SOC Cyber Analyst Support 24/7 Threat Hunting 24/7 Threat Disruption and Containment Support Mean Time to Contain: 15 minutes Machine Learning XDR Cloud Platform Multi-signal Coverage and Visibility Automated Detections with Signatures, IOCs and IPs טזרץלק׳טקתעץמ־טזקצ Detections mapped to MITRE ATT&CK Framework

5 Machine Learning patents for threat detection and data transfer Detection of unknown attacks using behavioral analytics Rapid human-led investigations Threat containment and remediation Detailed escalations with analysis and security recommendations eSentire Insight Portal access and real-time visualizations Threat Advisories, Threat Research and Thought Leadership Operational Reporting and Peer Coverage Comparisons Named Cyber Risk Advisor Business Reviews and Strategic Continuous Improvement planning

eSentire's Best of Breed Ecosystem of Technology Partners and Proprietary Detection Technology
טטסקלץטײֽעטץצערקכטטלולןלקהסחזכעלזטעיןטשטץהךלסךקטזכסעןעךףןהקיעץנציץענערץוטצקלסזןהצצטזעצצקטנעיףהץקסטץצ If you have already made a technology investment you can always Bring Your Own License (BYOL) to eSentire for optimization, and 24/7 MDR support.
We go beyond most MDR providers by developing custom detection engineering based on our threat intelligence and proprietary ML applications that hunt and respond to threats.

eSentire MDR for Network

eSentire MDR for Endpoint

eSentire MDR for Log

eSentire MDR for Cloud

eSentire Managed Vulnerability Service

Proprietary Technology

www.esentire.com

Security without compromise
Don't settle for partial security. Multi-signal matters. At eSentire, we believe a multi-signal approach is paramount to protecting your complete attack surface. eSentire MDR means multi-signal telemetry and complete response. Whether your environment is in the cloud, on-premises or somewhere in between we have the visibility to see what other MDR providers will miss.
״רץנרןקל¡צלךסהןהףףץעהזכלסךטצקצכלךכ¡חטןלקחהקהצערץזטציץענטסחףעלסקסטקתעץמןעךזןערחלסצלחטץקכץטהקהצצטקצהסחשרןסטץהולןלק data that enables complete attack surface visibility. Automated blocking capabilities from our eSentire Atlas XDR Cloud Platform prevent attackers from gaining an initial foothold while our expert Elite Threat Hunters can initiate human-led investigation and containment at multiple levels of the attack surface. Through the use of host isolation, malicious network communication disruption, account-based suspensions and other measures, we can stop the attacker at any level.

24/7 INVESTIGATION AND RESPONSE

MDR SIGNALS Data Collection
Network
Endpoint

INVESTIGATION Correlation

RESPONSE Kill Switch

24/7 INVESTIGATION CONTEXT DRIVERS

Log Cloud

Insider

Vulnerability

WE OWN THE R IN MDR
The World's Most Complete Threat Response Capability
To build a more responsive security operation, you need more than just alerts. You need a partner who goes further to prevent your ורצלסטצציץענטשטץוטלסךחלצץרףקטחאכטסלקזענטצקעץטצףעסצטלקצכעתתטחעלקקכהקנהמטצהןןקכטחלטץטסזט

RESPONSE SPEED
We Find and Stop Cyber Threats Faster Than Anyone
אכטסערץורצלסטצצצץטףרקהקלעסהסח operations are under attack, every minute matters. Our Atlas XDR platform instantly
detects and blocks threats millions of times per day. When human intuition is required, our 24/7 experts are on guard
to protect you with a Mean Time to Contain of only 15 minutes.

RESPONSE EXPERTISE
אטֽעסק׃רצקןטץקגערקע Cyber Threats, We Act On Them
We never throw alerts over the fence to you like other MSSPs and MDR providers.
We take real ownership of protecting your business, responding to ensure cyber
threats are contained and remediated, and your business operations continue
to run smoothly. An attack on you, is an attack on us.

RESPONSE COVERAGE
We Continuously Protect You Across Your Complete Cyberattack Surface
ֻטזעסחטסקערץחטיטסצטצהץטהןתהצ one step ahead. Our global SOCs are כענטקעקכטלסחרצקץצעסן"$¦'קכץטהק כרסקטץצהסחתלקכטטסקלץטצרסלפרט multi-signal intelligence, you can sleep easy knowing that whenever, wherever הסטתזוטץקכץטהקלצחטקטזקטחתטןן
always respond to protect you.

www.esentire.com

eSentire MDR is powered by Atlas XDR
One platform. Your complete attack surface protected. To respond fast and mitigate business risk, you need complete visibility and coverage of your attack surface which we uniquely deliver through our multi-signal approach to Managed Detection and Response. Our powerful Atlas XDR Platform ingests network, cloud, log, endpoint and insider threat signals, correlating indicators of compromise to detect, respond and automatically disrupt threats in minutes with a Mean Time to Contain of less than 15 minutes.
קטטסקלץטתטץטףץערחקעוטףלעסטטץצלסחטןלשטץלסךטטזקלשטטזלטסקהסחצזהןהוןטזוטץצטזרץלקצעןרקלעסצאטתטץטקכטץצקײֽשטסחעץ קעלסקץעחרזטהזןערח¡סהקלשטבֽףןהקיעץנ£קןהצ£הסחערץזןלטסקצהץטהןץטהחטסםעלסךקכטוטסטקצתכלןטקכטנהץמטקףןהצזהקזכרףׂקצסעק הועןק¡עסעץהחחעסקכטקןהצבֽףןהקיעץנלצהקקכטזעץטעיטטסקלץטײֽגערשטךעקקכטתטלךכקעיקכטתעץןחעסערץצכערןחטץצצעהצקכט name implies, Atlas does the heavy lifting for you.

20.5M
Daily Signals Ingesetd
3M
Daily Automated Disruptions

15min
MeanTimeto Contain

ױטשטץהךלסךףהקטסקטחנהזכלסטןטהץסלסךנעחטןצהסחהץקלזלהןלסקטןןלךטסזטףהקקטץסץטזעךסלקלעסקןהצבֽןטהץסצהזץעצצערץךןעוהןזרצקענטץ והצטהסחטקטסחצצטזרץלקסטקתעץמטטזקצצעטשטץזרצקענטץוטסטקצתלקכטהזכצףטזלזחטקטזקלעסכלצהולןלקקעץהףלחןןטהץסהסחתעץמהק cloud scale, combined with expert human actions, stops breaches and proactively mitigates customer risk in ways unattainable by legacy security products, traditional MSSPs and other MDR providers.

www.esentire.com

"$¹'ׁ־ׁ׳ׂ׳׀ֽׂׂ״׳
How we help put your business ahead of disruption
״רץקטהנחעטצסקחץעתסערלסהןטץקצתטךעוטעסחעקכטץײֽףץעשלחטץצקעחץלשטץטצרןקצ
We support your program with security experts, cutting-edge machine learning XDR technology and unique intelligence to mitigate business risk and drive your security program forward.
״רץץטסעתסטחזוטץצטזרץלקטףטץקצהץטנלצצלעסחץלשטסקעףץעקטזקערץורצלסטצצאטצקהסחךרהץח"$¦'צעערחעסקכהשטקע
We understand what is at stake for you and pride ourselves in our ability to respond as one dedicated global team, taking real ownership over protecting your business from disruption.

PEOPLE
An Attack On You Is An Attack On Us
From day one, our team is your team. Your Cyber Risk Advisor is dedicated
to keeping your business ahead of disruption and alongside them, ערץטםעלסלסךיעץזטצתלקכטףטץלטסזטח cybersecurity veterans, elite threat hunters, and industry-renowned threat researchers. Your protection is personal to us and together, we are committed to making your cybersecurity operation more responsive and your business
more cyber resilient.

PLATFORM
One Platform provides Complete Attack Surface Protection
ֽעסקצטקקןטיעץףהץקלהןצטזרץלק Our Atlas XDR Platform continuously ingests and correlates millions of threat signals across your environment, giving
you complete cyberattack surface visibility. Patented AI and machine
learning eliminate noise, power real-time detection and response, and automatically block over 3M attacks every single day ­ so our experts can focus on your highest
priority cybersecurity events.

INTELLIGENCE
Unique Intelligence That Puts You Ahead of The Threat Curve
Ready to reclaim the advantage over the most sophisticated
cybercriminals? When you combine real-time cyber threat signals
from across our global customer community with patented AI pattern
recognition, powerful machine learning models and the 24/7 expertise of our industry leading Cyber Analysts, your business
can scale, securely.

4.8 out of 5

טטסקלץט¡כטץצקהסח best MDR in the industry."
־ץלזײ¡ּׂ״ׁטהחעיInfrastructure, Risk and Security Technology Mid-Market Company

"I feel safer, more secured and part of an extended team."
Byron S, Enterprise Company

"eSentire - trusted security partner"
Amy M, CISO / Manager of Information Security Mid-Market Company

4.8 out of 5

"eSentire - MDR the way it should be!"
IT Manager Financial Services Company
Read full review here

"eSentire takes your security seriously"
ּכלטיׂסיעץנהקלעס״זטץ Media and Publishing Company
Read full review here

"eSentire - The best MDR out there!!"
SVP IT Securities and Investment Company
Read full review here

As of 11 May, 2022, eSentire has an Overall Rating of 4.8 out of 5 in Managed Detection and Response Services, based on 22 reviews. Read all our Gartner Peer Insights reviews here.

www.esentire.com

כטטטסקלץטחלטץטסזט
Put your business ahead of disruption
Recognized globally as the Authority in Managed Detection and Response כטתעץןחצנעצקהחשהסזטחבּֽןערחןהקיעץנ
24/7 Threat Hunting & Disruption End-to-end Risk Management ֿןטלוןטףץלזלסךהסחנרןקלףןטצטץשלזטקלטץצקכהקקערץורצלסטצצ Team eSentire - Cyber Risk Advisor + SOC Cyber Analyst and Elite Threat Hunters on guard for your business 24/7

Certified

Mapped

Awarded

Ready to get started?
Contact Us

$6.5T+
Total AUM
1200+
Customers in 75+ Countries
20.5M
Daily Signals Ingested
3M
Daily Atlas XDR Automated Disruptions
6000
Daily Human-led Investigations
700
Daily Escalations
400
Daily Threat Containments
15min
Mean Time to Contain

Gartner Peer Insights content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences with the vendors listed on the platform, should not be construed as statements of יהזקסעץחעקכטץטףץטצטסקקכטשלטתצעי׀הץקסטץעץלקצהןלהקטצ׀הץקסטץחעטצסעקטסחעץצטהסשטסחעץףץעחרזקעץצטץשלזטחטףלזקטחלסקכלצזעסקטסקסעץנהמטצהסתהץץהסקלטצטףץטצצטחעץלנףןלטח תלקכץטצףטזקקעקכלצזעסקטסקהוערקלקצהזזרץהזעץזענףןטקטסטצצלסזןרחלסךהסתהץץהסקלטצעינטץזכהסקהולןלקעץקסטצציעץהףהץקלזרןהץףרץףעצט׀׳־לצהץטךלצקטץטחקץהחטנהץמהסחצטץשלזט נהץמהסח־־ׂ׳ׂ׀ׁלצהקץהחטנהץמהסחצטץשלזטנהץמעי׀הץקסטץׂסזהסח¦עץלקצהןלהקטצלסקכטהסחלסקטץסהקלעסהןןהסחהץטרצטחכטץטלסתלקכףטץנלצצלעסןןץלךכקצץטצטץשטח
If you're experiencing a security incident or breach contact us 1-866-579-2200

eSentire is the Authority in Managed Detection and Response, protecting the critical data and applications of 1200+ organizations in 75+ countries, ץטףץטצטסקלסך#%לסחרצקץלטציץענמסעתסהסחרסמסעתסזוטץקכץטהקצֿערסחטחלס" !קכטזענףהסצנלצצלעסלצקעכרסקלסשטצקלךהקטהסחצקעףזוטץקכץטהקצ before they become business disrupting events. Combining cutting-edge machine learning XDR technology, 24/7 Threat Hunting, and proven security עףטץהקלעסצןטהחטץצכלףטטסקלץטנלקלךהקטצורצלסטצצץלצמהסחטסהוןטצצטזרץלקהקצזהןטכטטהנטטסקלץטחלטץטסזטנטהסצטסקטץףץלצטצהץטףץעקטזקטח by the best in the business with a named Cyber Risk Advisor, 24/7 access to SOC Cyber Analysts & Elite Threat Hunters, and industry-leading threat לסקטןןלךטסזטץטצטהץזכיץענ טטסקלץטצ כץטהק טצףעסצט סלק ₪¥ טטסקלץט ףץעשלחטצ ײהסהךטח לצמ ײהסהךטח ֽטקטזקלעס הסח טצףעסצט הסח ׂסזלחטסק Response services. For more information, visit www.esentire.com and follow @eSentire.

DATA S H E E T:
On-Demand Incident Response Service
4-hour threat suppression SLA, delivered remotely, anywhere in the world

Industry Leading 4-Hour Threat Suppression
We get you back to normal business operations in a matter of hours, delivering a guaranteed 4-hour threat suppression promise, anywhere in the world.
We strategically deploy our proprietary eSentire Atlas XDR Investigator agent to devices across your network. Therefore, within minutes of your call, our team will have immediate access and forensic capabilities to actively work to suppress the threat.

Elite Global Expertise
We provide you with priority access on-demand to our team of elite incident responders who are highly accredited with diverse cybersecurity backgrounds and decades of experience.
Many of our incident responders have held technical leadership positions across the Federal Government (Special Forces, FBI, DEA, CIA) and within Fortune 500 companies.

Proprietary Best In-Class DFIR Technology
Our industry-leading digital forensics and investigative tools allow us to provide immediate time to value - collecting forensics artifacts regardless of your organization's size or location - to get you back to normal business operations within hours vs days.
Our service is powered by eSentire Atlas XDR Investigator, our proprietary technology, which enables our team to perform end-to-end investigations remotely.

Full Support Through the Investigative Lifecycle
We provide full support throughout the investigative process לסזןרחלסךקכטןלסךעי cyber insurance claims, compliance & litigation evidence preservation, קץהסצלקלעסלסךסחלסךצקעןהת enforcement, supporting legal proceedings, expert witness testimony and strengthening security gaps through the implementation of lessons learned.

אכטסחלצהצקטץצקץלמטצערסטטחהסלסזלחטסקץטצףעסצטףהץקסטץקכהקזהסץטהזקתלקכלסחרצקץ¡ןטהחלסךצףטטחהסחטזהזׁהשלסךלננטחלהקט access to expert on-demand incident response services brings rapid control and stability to your organization when a breach occurs. ׂקזהסוטקכטחלטץטסזטוטקתטטסהזהקהצקץעףכלזחההסחםרצקהסעקכטץחההקקכטעזטוטזהרצטכעתיהצקערץעץךהסל‎הקלעסזהסזעסקהלס and recover from a security incident is critical to limiting business disruption, reducing costs, and salvaging reputational damage.
eSentire's On-Demand 24/7 Incident Response service provides you peace of mind with the fastest threat suppression in the industry. Through a combination of best-in-class digital forensics technology and elite responders, we can suppress a cybersecurity incident, anywhere in the world, within 4 hours. Our eSentire Atlas XDR Investigator agents are deployed once our partnership begins, resulting in time to value that is unmatched industry-wide.

eSentire 4-Hour Threat Suppression
SLA

DAY 1
Discovery of Intrusion

DAY 0

DAY 1

WITHOUT eSentire

DAY 1 Forensic Aquisition of Known Systems
DAY 4

DAY 4 Forensic Analysis
of Evidence
DAY 9

DAY 9 Completion of Incident Response
DAY 220 Discovery of
Intrusion
UNDETECTED INTRUSION

www.esentire.com

eSentire's Digital Forensics Technology Advantage
Our service is powered by our proprietary eSentire Atlas XDR Investigator agent. This digital forensics tool enables our team to perform end-to-end investigations remotely. No other company is in possession of technology that will help you triage and contain a data security breach faster. Within hours of deployment, you will know every impacted system on your network and be completing containment and remediation steps. Competing service providers and technology companies will take months to arrive at the same point of resolution.
Want to know if your breach is attributable to an external actor or an internal operator with legitimate credentials? The eSentire approach is unique in driving your results quickly so we can rapidly answer that question. If you want to take action in court, respond to a regulator, or pursue any number of other activities associated with a data breach, you will need forensicallyassured data. Collecting that data is often prohibitively expensive, unless you're using eSentire Digital Forensics & Incident Response capabilities.
eSentire brings unique capabilities with its proprietary XDR and endpoint technology, with unparalleled real-time visibility across all deployed assets. Unlike legacy "dead drive" forensic tools, our platform enables cybersecurity investigators to immediately and remotely commence identifying the exact nature of a security event, determining to what extent systems כהשטוטטסהטזקטחהסחהזזטןטץהקלסךלסזלחטסקץטצףעסצטטטסקלץטצףןהקיעץננלקלךהקטצלנףהזקוצרוצקהסקלהןןץטחרזלסךקכט mean time to identify (MTTI) and mean time to contain (MTTC) cyber threats to minutes from days or even weeks.

How it works

Scoping Call

Stop the Attacker Rapid deployment
Understand background facts of case
Determine investigative direction

Eradicate their presence Attack Containment
Initiate containment actions

Strengthen Security and Report to relevant parties Continuous Improvement
Build inventory of compromised assets

Quarantine affected systems/accounts

List data types and records exposed

Signed Contract

Access to toolset and investigation staff

Perform forensic crime scene reconstruction

Readout to executive leadership

Deployment of Atlas XDR Agents

Access in-scope systems and networks
Perform initial investigation

Identify source and intrusion vectors
Recreate lateral movement pathways

Satisfy reporting obligations
Transition findings to law enforcement

Incident Response Call comes in to eSentire

Collect and preserve material evidence

Uncover instances of data exfiltration

Two-Tiered People-Powered Approach where our Cyber Security Investigations Team is supported by our 24/7 SOC Cyber Analysts and Elite Threat Hunters

Implement lessons learned
End of Engagement

www.esentire.com

Features
4-Hour Remote SLA with Retainer
Quickly mobilizes investigative toolset and expert responders providing critical visibility and support across ערץהטזקטחסטקתעץמצהסחהצצטקצ
Rapid Deployment
Quickly mobilizes responders and investigative toolsets, ףרקקלסךזץלקלזהןשלצלולןלקעסערץהטזקטחסטקתעץמהסחהצצטקצ
On-Site Incident Responders
Within 24 hours, anywhere in the world, we can deploy boots on the ground for on-site incident response management.
End-to-End Incident Management
Cyber Security Investigations team and supporting technologies cover the full incident response lifecycle.
Elite Tool Sets
To illuminate where attackers are present. Supports root cause analysis.
Critical Visibility
Deployment of commercially available and open-source tools, including eSentire's network, endpoint, and log technology, as needed, to collect endpoint telemetry, full סטקתעץמףהזמטקצסטקעתהסחןעךחהקהיץענעס¡ףץטנלצטצ and cloud environments to provide multiple vantage points for analysis.
Malware Analysis
אטתלןןחטקטזקהסחהסהן‎טנהןלזלערצןטצהסחױצ for suspicious activities to gather a deep analysis and generate comprehensive & detailed reports.
Managed Containment
Locks down and isolates threat actors preventing further spread and business impact.

Digital Forensic Analysis
Reconstructs the incident determining root cause, הטזקטחצצקטנצהסחהקקהזמטץףהקכתהצ
Asset Handling
Secure and robust processes for asset handling and chain of custody support.
Eradication Support
ׂחטסקלטצטףןעלקטחשרןסטץהולןלקלטצצרףףעץקצ ץטנטחלהקלעסעיהטזקטחהצצטקצ
ּעסץנהקלעס
Ensures the network is secure and monitors for attacker response and persistence measures.
Compliance Satisfaction
Meets regulatory requirements with centralized collection, retention and reporting.
Litigation Support
Expert and fact witness testimony, if needed, is available.
Evidence Preservation
Gathers and stores incident details that meet legal, insurance and regulatory requirements.
Robust Reporting
ֽטקהלןטחסחלסךהסחלנףהזקצעיקכטזוטץלסשטצקלךהקלעס chronicle taken with lessons learned at the executive and technical level.

www.esentire.com

The eSentire Cyber Security Investigations Team

With the eSentire Cyber Security Investigations (CSI) team, you gain access to highly credentialed responders, comprised of computer forensic practitioners with decades of experience serving government intelligence agencies, federal & city law enforcements, the United States Military and Fortune 500 companies. Our team of responders have extensive incident response experience and multiple לסחרצקץזטץקלזהקלעסצ

·ּטץקלטחׂסיעץנהקלעסצקטנצטזרץלקץעיטצצלעסהן₪ּׂ¥ · Licensed Private Investigator (LPI) ·ּטץקלטחׁהזמטץֿעץטסצלזצׂסשטצקלךהקעץ₪ּֿׁׂ¥

·ּטץקלטחּענףרקטץֿעץטסצלזצ־הנלסטץ₪ּּֿ־¥ ·ּטץקלטחֿעץטסצלזצּעסצרןקהסק₪ּּֿ¥ ·׀ּּׂטץקלטחׂסזלחטסקׁהסחןטץ₪׀ּׁׂ¥

eSentire CSI partners with our global SOC Cyber Analysts and Elite Threat Hunters, extending your Incident Response support and expertise across hundreds of team members with decades of experience in threat detection, remediation and recovery. Our team has deep knowledge of how targeted attacks break through, and the Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) adversaries use to הזכלטשטקכטלץעוםטזקלשטצטטסקלץטׂףץעזטחרץטצהץטסקורלןקעסץלךלחיץהנטתעץמצׂסצקטהחתטץטןעסטלוןטצעןרקלעסלסךהסחכהסחצ¡עס incident response experience.

Delivers Results
· Attacks are quickly contained and incidents are resolved
· Recovery is supported eliminating the chance for recurrence
· Root cause analysis and threat eradication
· Systems clear for return to standard business operations

Power of 24/7 SOC Team
· Access to hundreds of team members
· 24/7 SOC Cyber Analysts and Elite Threat Hunters
· Expertise detecting, disrupting and responding to threats

Flexible Delivery Model
· Can be engaged on Retainer for Incident Response and Emergency Preparedness
· Available to address Emergency Incident Response

www.esentire.com

The Difference Between MDR and Incident Response
eSentire is proud to be recognized globally as the Authority in Managed Detection and Response. We prioritize our capability to respond and own the R in MDR. Team eSentire is proud to deliver MDR3 - Response. Remediation. Results. Our capability in Response is built from:
· Full threat visibility with multi-signal ingestion across network, endpoint, log and cloud sources · Detection capabilities mapped to MITRE ATT&CK framework · Automated detections and orchestrated blocks through our Atlas XDR Cloud Platform · ץעהזקלשטטזרץלק׳טקתעץמ־טזקצהנףןלילסךחטקטזקלעסהסחץטצףעסצטזהףהולןלקלטצהזץעצצערץטסקלץט
global customer base · Human intuition and threat hunting expertise for deeper investigation and analysis · Threat isolation, containment and remediation אכטסערץףץטשטסקהקלשטקעעןצהץטוףהצצטחכהשטזעסחטסזטקכהקטהנטטסקלץטלצקכטץטקעחטקטזקחלצץרףקהסחזעסקהלס the threat. So where does MDR end and where does Incident Response begin?
eSentire Managed Detection and Response (MDR)
Based on multi-signal ingest capability we disrupt and contain attacks before they become business impacting events. We provide recommendations on remediation, or can complete remediation.
On-Demand Incident Response Retainer
4-hour threat suppression delivered remotely by our Cyber Security Investigations team who are armed with best-in-class tools to identify the root cause of an existing security incident and determine the extent to which data & assets were compromised. This helps ensure you can get back to normal business operations and we will support you through recovery & provide assistance to satisfy your stakeholder and compliance obligations. The results of our digital forensics investigations can bear scrutiny in a court of law.
By converging eSentire MDR and IR, you are able to:
· Simplify the call for help so you know who to turn to in a moment of crisis (when every second counts and emotions are running high).
· קץטהנןלסטתעץמעתצתכלזכהןןעתצרצקעןטהףעקכטצקהץקלסךוןעזמצקעחטןלשטץיהצקטץקלנט¡קע¡טטזרקלעסהסח time-to-value.
· Alleviate the burden from your IT team by allowing us to take on the heavy lifting of response, investigation, remediation, and reporting obligations.
· Blend leading-edge technology with responsive and dynamic service delivery. · Achieve an unmatched understanding of a rapidly changing situation by leveraging detection and situational
awareness (e.g., from endpoint, network, and log visibility) in combination with analysis and dead disk forensics.
www.esentire.com

We're here to help!
Submit your information and an eSentire representative will be in touch to discuss how our On-Demand 24/7 Incident Response Service can ensure you quickly bring control & stability to the situation, if a breach should occur.
Contact Us
eSentire also has Emergency Incident Response Support Available. If you are experiencing a security incident or have been breached, contact us 1-866-579-2200
eSentire is the Authority in Managed Detection and Response, protecting the critical data and applications of 1200+ organizations in 75+ countries, representing 35 industries from known and unknown cyber threats. Founded in 2001, the company's mission is to hunt, investigate and stop cyber threats before they become business disrupting events. Combining cutting-edge machine learning XDR technology, 24/7 Threat Hunting, and proven security עףטץהקלעסצןטהחטץצכלףטטסקלץטנלקלךהקטצורצלסטצצץלצמהסחטסהוןטצצטזרץלקהקצזהןטכטטהנטטסקלץטחלטץטסזטנטהסצטסקטץףץלצטצהץטףץעקטזקטח by the best in the business with a named Cyber Risk Advisor, 24/7 access to SOC Cyber Analysts & Elite Threat Hunters, and industry-leading threat intelligence research from eSentire's Threat Response Unit (TRU). eSentire provides Managed Risk, Managed Detection and Response and Incident Response services. For more information, visit www.esentire.com and follow @eSentire.

