MDR or MSSP? A COMPARISON GUIDE
Key considerations of each model and what to look for in a provider

TABLE OF CONTENTS
03 Introduction 04 MSS Marketplace and the Emergence of MDR 06 Comparing Provider Types 09 Requirements for Effective MDR and MSS 11 Questions to Ask a Prospective MSSP and MDR Provider

INTRODUCTION
In today's hyper-connected world -- across cloud and hybrid environments, spanning multiple networks and mobile devices -- cyberattack risks have never been more pronounced. Meanwhile, threat actors continue to develop malicious, ingenious tricks and techniques to stay one step ahead of security systems and response specialists. As a result, a more focused and proactive approach to detecting, investigating, and responding to threats is required. To address these challenges, Managed Detection and Response (MDR) emerged out of the Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP) model, providing services ­ in addition to around-the-clock monitoring ­ that include expert analysis and rapid response to a variety of sophisticated attacks. Unfortunately, there are a number of vendors in this space, which can make evaluating partners quite difficult. To complicate the situation further, the security industry is full of buzzwords and marketing promises -- an overwhelming, ever-changing lexicon of names, acronyms, and services -- that often do not give companies a clear picture of the service they will receive and the outcomes that will be delivered. Choosing the right partner to provide a solution can be a challenging process -- but it doesn't have to be. This eBook will help define the solution best suited to your needs and simplify the search process for the best provider.
3

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

MSS MARKETPLACE AND THE EMERGENCE OF MDR

BY THE NUMBERS

The Managed Security Services (MSS) industry came into being in response to the changing threats faced by organizations along with the ever more complicated processes that were needed for cyber defense.
In the early days when IT teams maintained disparate systems, it made sense to consider cyber threats as isolated events and to focus on containment. However, as enterprise IT became more distributed and the defender's role more complicated, MSSPs stepped in to provide firewall management, security event monitoring, and basic threat detection and alerting services. When endpoint detection and response technologies (EDR) emerged in the mid-2010s, it became possible to conduct deeper analysis on the leading attack vector ­ endpoints ­ to improve the detection of suspicious activities on endpoints and hosts. MSSPs and new MDR players leveraged endpoint telemetry to handle alerting, investigation, analysis, and response. Combined with the long-standing shortage of cybersecurity experts needed to make sense of the flood of alerts and data coming in from EDR and other sources, MDR providers have distanced themselves from traditional MSSPs by adding threat intelligence, machine learning, automation and analytics, human-led threat hunting and remote incident response skills.

Market growth
The Managed Detection and Response (MDR) Market is expected to reach $2.2 billion by 2025 at a CAGR of 16.7%, according to Industry Arc.2 With a market size of $974.9 million in 2020, the largest market share by service type is the Threat Detection segment at 38% in 2020, with a projected CAGR of 30.7% by 2028, according to Reports and Data3. Heightened awareness of coordinated efforts by bad actors and a rise in sophisticated attacks has made threat detection as part of MDR services top of mind for many.
2 "Managed Detection and Response Market - Industry Analysis, Market Size, Share, Trends, Growth and Forecast 2021­2026." Industry Arc.
3 "Managed Detection and Response (MDR) Market by Security Type, By Organization Size, By Service Type, By Deployment, By End-User, And Segment Forecasts, 2020-2028." Feb 2020. Reports and Data.

4

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide
Making Sense of the Noise
According to Gartner®, "MSSs provide organizations with a variety of management and operational services specific to security technologies and business outcomes for security. Capabilities include security monitoring, detection and response, exposure assessment and management as well as security consulting and security technology implementation. MSS are delivered in a variety of modes, in the providers' cloud infrastructure, as consultative engagements or through staff augmentation and on-premises." 3. With that in mind, there are several facets that a company interested in an MDR solution should research further. For example, many vendors use a predefined technology stack encompassing areas such as cloud services and telemetry, others only offer endpoint protection. While MDR providers actively respond to threats, the details of how each vendor accomplishes these tasks varies by vendor. Like any service offering, MDR is only as good as the people, processes, and technology that support the solution. And as demand for these services increase, it is more important than ever to understand the potential deliverables from a potential provider. It is a well-worn industry trope that a cybersecurity breach is a matter of when and not if. And, with increased board-level and partner-to-partner accountability and stringent regulatory compliance requirements, the need for timely threat detection and response is a requirement. However, one must ask the correct questions at the start of the process to understand the full scope of the deal.
3 Gartner "Market Guide for Managed Security Services". 16 March 2022. Pete Shoard, Mitchell Schneider, et al.
5

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

COMPARING PROVIDER TYPES

As the use of MDR solutions expands and more MSSPs begin offering this service, an organization must decide which third-party supplier to choose based on the organization's security needs, gaps and specific goals.

Managed Detection and Response
Managed Detection and Response combines technology and human expertise to focus on advanced threat detection and mitigation. MDR was specifically designed to facilitate rapid breach detection and deploy robust responses to mitigate potential damage. MDR service providers programmatically cultivate the deep talent base, knowledge, and processes to support these capabilities.
MSSPs
MSSPs serve as an outsourced function of an IT team, handling those aspects of security that cannot be done in-house due to talent shortages or because the existing staff must oversee highervalue projects. Whether requiring a full security operations center (SOC) or just needing alerts set up and monitored across numerous standards, MSSPs are best leveraged when internal IT resources are limited and the expectation for greater involvement over time is low. MSSPs also emphasize excellence in security technology maintenance and cyber hygiene. When evaluating an MSSP, one will want to understand the MSSP's process for maintaining skills and certifications in the technologies they manage, how they integrate technology management with detection and response services, and how often you can communicate with them before incurring additional fees.

Major Consulting Firms
Major consulting firms have taken on managed security services as part of their broader IT outsourcing portfolio, typically included within large, enterprise-wide digital transformation projects. These highly complex initiatives are often robust and customized but with a price tag to match. Ultimately, even large companies and those involved in projects of this scope will want to verify the vendor recommendations made during the transformation that layer onto the build of a new SOC or large-scale cloud migration. MSSPs and MDR providers who offer deep capabilities will ensure a company's investment in projects such as these comes with a promise of security well beyond project completion.
Managed Detection and Response Providers
Managed Detection and Response Providers vary when it comes to quality and approach. For example, software providers that are known for a specific aspect of managed security --such as endpoint protection -- may also boast service capabilities as part of their business offering. And while endpoint detection and response is a good starting point, it isn't accurate to say that EDR providers will necessarily excel in detection and response for cloud environments in the same manner as a dedicated MDR provider. Moreover, their capability to extend telemetry to non-EDR technologies may be limited.
6

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide
Many MSSPs jumped on the MDR services bandwagon by adding endpoint capabilities to their existing competencies in network security and log data analysis. Given these different models and approaches, how does one evaluate a vendor? A couple of questions to pose: Have MDR services been tacked onto an existing program that handles reviewing existing data logs or firewall protection? Or, has the provider created an entirely new offering to guide procedure and oversight for MDR specifically? Here are some additional things to consider:
Investigation processes aren't created equal. Unless an MDR provider is connecting the dots between systems and looking at all levels of involvement during an event, an investigation offering may simply be a source system notification in disguise. Because this alert is easily automated, this distinction matters. True threat investigations require human ingenuity behind the scenes, providing a dynamic, active operation. Actions that an MDR should take both for and with its customer should be explicitly assigned, requiring advance access and planning. Let's call this criterion the Triple-A effect: Action, Access, and Assignment. An MDR provider's ability to take action in response to a threat should not be assumed nor taken for granted. Many providers stop at notifications and reports. However, in the current security landscape, a fast and thorough response includes a directive for action or even unhindered action -- where a provider acts on behalf of the customer. A client and provider should work together on defining a threat response strategy with detailed action steps, and a flexible framework to triage unanticipated situations. Whether or not a provider takes action to gain access on its own should be well-defined and agreed upon in advance, with tiers of clearance ready to be applied and permission granted well before a threat enters a customer's environment. The knowledge of not only which actions are recommended, but who is taking (assignment) them -- and how -- separates basic MDR providers from industry leaders. Do you want your MDR provider to disable your CEO's account immediately upon the identification of malware, or do you want to keep that action as an in-house team responsibility? Is the network running your plant floor -- with assembly lines turning out more than $1 million in product per hour -- off limits to all vendors outside the company? How do you want to notify individual employees when their device is shut down because of a threat? All of these scenarios -- or frameworks to account for responses to the unknown -- are laid out in playbooks that create strong ties between MDR provider and customer from the relationship's onset. Clear communications and alerts ensure you don't miss anything. Tracking and documentation are essential components of strong MDR programs. Beyond having a user-friendly dashboard, integrated ticketing systems and reporting should clearly display all actions taken to create a proper audit trail and communications protocol for all stakeholders.
7

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

Threat hunting: embracing human ingenuity
While an effective MSSP should leverage MDR solutions, consider what capabilities make a specific MDR solution stand out against other potential partners. Find an MSSP whose MDR services include proactive threat hunting: yet another term that often gets misrepresented in the managed security space. Robust threat hunting should be proactive and hypothesis-based (rather than simply cross-referencing known criteria around an existing alert). Unfortunately, few threats in today's threat landscape can be known in advance or easily detected. The addition of human intuition into the equation creates connections between events and helps discovers anomalies that the algorithm has yet discovered. These connections enhance security intelligence and apply new information to historical data, improving correlations and building a deeper understanding of an environment as a whole.
The quality of a potential vendor's customer success teams is also a critical piece of evaluation criteria when considering an MDR provider. With protocols evolving and new devices and software being added to customer environments, the strength of your point of contact within a vendor organization is a test of your ability to assess and act upon alerts and material information that come your way -- no matter which platform you're working with.
8

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

REQUIREMENTS FOR EFFECTIVE MDR AND MSS

Here's a list of criteria to get you started.
Remediation and response
Many MSSPs will tout response capabilities connected to their alerts and recommendations rather than specific actions they can take on your behalf in case of an attack. A detailed plan should document those actions in advance. With a sophisticated MDR, the client will receive real-time alerts and know who will take the appropriate action and benefit from the application of new intelligence and even historical data. Human insights derived from robust threat hunting capability will allow for improved remediation by making correlations to information available from outside the bounds of programmed alerts.
Detection versus investigation

Be sure to ask about the frequency of investigations and their prioritization: the difference between a one-time search or scheduled daily searches and continuous findings assessments is another differentiator that separates traditional threat detection from true MDR.
Visibility
Evaluate the platform itself to see how it aggregates information. Is reporting and detection and response orchestration available on its dashboard? With a poorly developed platform, your team may still be operating inefficiently, logging into dozens of systems, or manually checking things across different interfaces. the information doesn't come together on its own, so remember not to overlook how the solution views the data. Inputs are also an essential area to evaluate, especially when coming from numerous cloud sources.

Detection is built around existing, programmed indicators of compromise (IoCs). Beware of MSSPs who claim that their SOC's threat detection is up to proper MDR standards. To meet MDR standards, the operator must pair detection with investigation -- and even this varies widely in levels of sophistication. If reports are being taken directly from the software and shared, an easily automated process, then proactive threat hunting is missing from the service in question. While both detection and investigation provide value, they differ greatly in manpower and outcomes.
Different tooling and access are required for human-led hunting to occur. This type of hunting identifies anomalies outside of what security teams have already programmed for monitoring. Relaying insights from one customer environment to another creates advantages of scale for both novel threats and emerging trends.

Integration
Integration with cloud environments is critical for thorough detection and response. While endpoint protection is an excellent starting point, this service alone is not reflective of effective MDR. The EDR viewing window is much narrower than the current security landscape requires. A vendor should understand a client's needs and adapt its offering as needed, while also making it possible to continue using existing infrastructure and platforms.

9

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

Strategy
A vendor with a firm grasp of MDR will have options available for roadmap creation and planning, so whichever MDR offering chosen is built on a firm foundation. Be sure to inquire about the playbooks and frameworks that are used to form the basis of the vendor's approach to response. Knowing the factors a vendor takes into consideration -- the why as well as the how -- when assigning owners is a signal of maturity.
Flexible Software & Source Options
Many MSSPs will mandate the use of their proprietary platforms, which, if used in tandem with other best-in-class offerings, can yield sophisticated and beneficial results. However, if the technologies the vendors intend to use are limited only to the individual vendors' proprietary platform and its data, queries will lose valuable context from external sources. For those vendors that utilize outside sources to improve their product, it's essential to discover how long the vendor has worked with different information sources. For example, an organization with a longstanding SIEM background can share the fruits of its gains from having learned from extended data access over time.

TRUSTWAVE: WORLD-CLASS MSS DNA MAKES FOR POWERFUL MDR
As an analyst-recognized MSS and MDR leader, Trustwave offers clients a one-stop-shop for managed security and managed detection and response, as well as consulting and professional services. Underpinning these services is the elite Trustwave SpiderLabs team and its world-class threat intelligence capabilities. Additionally, data from across 5,000+ MSS global Trustwave customers, insights gained from 100,000 hours of security testing along with discrete research are all integrated into Trustwave's MSS and MDR offerings to help drive faster and more effective detection and response outcomes.
By having all these capabilities under one roof, Trustwave enables security analysts to make high-fidelity detections by ensuring that the underlying technology is operating correctly. Also, leveraging a single provider for MDR and traditional MSS activities enables an incident response team to handle remediation activities seamlessly.

Trustwave provides a unique global delivery footprint of MDR/ MSS for our clients. The advantages of using this model include:

· Core competencies and mature skills in a breadth of security technologies and log data analysis to reduce time and training costs of a client's in-house team.

· Broad telemetry from the Trustwave global client base to enrich detections and augment hypothesis-based threat hunting. The ability to take fast and appropriate response actions with mature processes.

· Strong track record working as extensions of our clients' teams.
10

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide
QUESTIONS TO ASK A PROSPECTIVE MSSP AND MDR PROVIDER
The first step is to ask yourself what your team and organization require and ascertain realistic parameters for support levels. These two elements allow you to enter a conversation with a potential partner with clarity and purpose.
Here are a few questions to ask yourself in preparation for implementing managed security services (including threat detection and response):
· How security-focused is my business? · How are threats currently detected? · What role is my team able to realistically play in managing and interacting
with an MSSP? · Do I have a well-formed roadmap or standards in place that a vendor needs
to fit into? Or am I seeking guidance to get my roadmap started? · Am I happy with my current technology footprint? Do I want to make any
changes? What products do I currently have in place to detect threats.? · What is our incident response plan for a data breach? · What level of control am I willing to give to a vendor?
11

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide

ANALYST INTEL
According to Forrester4
Look for MSSPs that...
· Support any deployment model
· Will automate actions for their customers, not just themselves
· Offer remediation support across multiple platforms

According to Gartner
For MDR, Security & Risk Management (SRM) leaders should:
· "Use MDR services to obtain 24/7, remotely delivered modern security operations center capabilities when there are no existing internal capabilities, or when the organization needs to accelerate or augment existing security operations capabilities.
· Assess how the MDR provider's containment approach can integrate with your organization's policies and procedures and, where practical, accept providers performing threat containment and disruption actions on your behalf to enable quick responses to detected threats.
· Attain the maximum benefit from MDR services by preparing response workflow processes and integrating existing ticket management systems to ensure a businesscentric response.
· Investigate whether the MDR provider's technology stack or supported set of technologies fits with existing security controls and IT environment, from on-premises to cloud".5
For MSS, SRM leaders responsible for security operations should:
· "Focus on the specific security needs of their business when approaching security service providers, looking specifically at the individual markets for managed detection and response (MDR), vulnerability assessment (VA) and incident response (IR).
· Separate consultative and service-driven requirements to ensure service delivery is as consistent as possible and customized capabilities are appropriately defined.
· Define expected outcomes and required deliverables in detail, evaluating internal security response processes to identify how security services will be consumed".6

4 "The Forrester Wave TM: Global Managed Security Services Providers, Q3 2020". 27 July 2020. Forrester: Jeff Pollard and Claire O'Malley. 5 Gartner, "Market Guide for Managed Detection and Response Services". 25 October 2021. Pete Shoard, Craig Lawson, et al. 6 Gartner "Market Guide for Managed Security Services". 16 March 2022. Pete Shoard, Mitchell Schneider, et al.

GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.

12

MDR or MSSP? A Comparison Guide
What to ask a prospective provider:
· What is their geographic and industry footprint? Does the vendor have insights into the global threat landscape or is it more regionally or vertically focused? · How long has the vendor provided MDR services? Is it able to respond to threats quickly and consistently or are there variances in the skillsets from one SOC ­
or analyst ­ to the next? · What threat intelligence sources are used in its service(s)? · How does the vendor attract and retain its people? · How does the vendor ensure it will not take any actions without permission? · Is it recognized within the industry? Does it have processes in place that deepen its expertise beyond individual talent? · Do its supported technologies align with your environment? · How are you able to interact with the service? (Email? Ticketing? Phone? Mobile app?) · What's the governance structure for the vendor relationship and services? How is oversight conducted and how are expectations met? · What types of industry certifications and standards assist with your compliance audit and maturity goals? · Does the company offer services for simplified vendor management and consolidation? · Does the vendor have consulting capabilities as well as managed service capabilities? With these questions in mind, a prospective MSS client will be well equipped to select a vendor that can be trusted and that can adapt as your needs change. As you navigate the process, Trustwave is here to help every step of the way.
13

Trustwave is recognized as a global security leader for stopping cyberthreats in the hybrid multi-cloud world. With more than 2,000 security-focused professionals operating in 96 countries, Trustwave helps organizations detect and respond
to global threats and assists IT teams in meeting strategic and tactical security objectives. Trustwave SpiderLabs, an elite team of analysts, threat hunters and investigators, operating from a global network of security operations
and research centers, investigate malware, web clients and servers, emails, databases, applications and major vulnerabilities. Unanimously lauded by industry analysts for our strategic vision and ability to execute, Trustwave is relentlessly focused on helping clients stay secure in the digital era.
trustwave.com

7 Experts on Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience
How Financial Services Firms Can Manage Risk and Sustainably Scale

Sponsored by

Table of Contents

Introduction

3

Foreword

4

Chapter One: What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential

7

Chapter Two: Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms

11

Chapter Three: Strategies for Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience

15

Chapter Four: How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

18

Learn More About Our Experts

23

Introduction
The number of ransomware attacks increased tenfold over last year, and attacks like SolarWinds and Kaseya illustrated the devastating and widespread impacts of supply chain attacks on organizations of all sizes. At the same time, financial services firms are faced with another challenge--there is no playbook for navigating the scope of the digital transformations they are currently experiencing. To survive this moment, financial services companies must ensure their cyber resilience.
Financial firms are no strangers to security matters, having developed a level of security maturity that is higher than one might typically find in other sectors. They know, better than most, that resilience is the key to addressing increasingly complex threats and creating a secure foundation for sustainable, long-term growth. As their needs change, so, too, must the strategies they deploy to maintain their resilience.
This ebook explains what cyber resilience is and why it matters to financial services companies today. It also outlines the unique challenges that financial firms face in becoming resilient, discusses how they can develop effective strategies for doing so, and covers how a managed services provider can help financial services accelerate the process of building cyber resilience.
All the best, David Rogelberg Editor, Mighty Guides Inc.

Mighty Guides make you stronger.
These authoritative and diverse guides provide a full view of a topic. They help you explore, compare, and contrast a variety of viewpoints so that you can determine what will work best for you. Reading a Mighty Guide is kind of like having your own team of experts. Each heartfelt and sincere piece of advice in this guide sits right next to the contributor's name, biography, and links so that you can learn more about their work. This background information gives you the proper context for each expert's independent perspective.
Credible advice from top experts helps you make strong decisions. Strong decisions make you mighty.

3 www.mightyguides.com I 516.840.0244 I 10409 Pacific Palisades Ave. Las Vegas, NV 89144-1221 I © 2021 Mighty Guides, Inc.

Foreword
Playing defense is a tough job, no doubt about it. With cybercrime exponentially rising and financial services being one of the most highly targeted verticals, the industry must establish stringent protocols, practices, and solutions.
Financial services organizations are no strangers to being targeted by bad actors. The lack of a standard security blueprint coupled with the ever-changing threat landscape and technology evolution can make establishing and maintaining a proactive security posture challenging and costly.
Identifying the right partner to support your organization's security goals is a critical decision. Your partner needs to understand and work with you to achieve your business goals while helping to optimize existing resources and future investments in security technology.
In this guide, we explore best practices and strategies to build and maintain long-term resilience. We also discuss the importance of rapid detection, response, and recovery from threats.
The diligent efforts of several financial industry experts, leaders in the cybersecurity space, and research into modern attack trends came together to make this guide possible. I encourage you to leverage the collected expertise to tackle your security challenges head-on.
Regards, Steve Baer, Field Chief Technology Officer, Trustwave

Trustwave is a leading cybersecurity and managed security services provider focused on threat detection and response. Offering a comprehensive portfolio of managed security services, consulting and professional services, and data protection technology, Trustwave helps businesses embrace digital transformation securely. Trustwave is a Singtel company and the global security arm of Singtel, Optus, and NCS, with customers in 96 countries. For more information about Trustwave, visit https://www.trustwave.com.

4 www.mightyguides.com I 516.840.0244 I 10409 Pacific Palisades Ave. Las Vegas, NV 89144-1221 I © 2021 Mighty Guides, Inc.

TRUSTWAVE MANAGED DETECTION & RESPONSE
Your security tools. Our detection and response platform and relentless experts. Integrated with out-of-box rules and up-to-the-minute threat intelligence to detect faster and respond better with automation and orchestration.
Infinite vigilance, 24x7, against cyberthreats around the globe.
www.trustwave.com

Meet Our Experts

Kory Daniels
Global Director of Threat Detection and Response Consulting, Trustwave

Spencer Ingram
Senior VP of Operations, Trustwave

Steve Baer
Field CTO, Trustwave and Trustwave Government Solutions

Erica Wilson
VP of Global Security and Privacy Risk Management,
RGA
6

Muhammad Maad
CISO, Faysal Bank Limited

Satyajeet Rattan
VP of Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering,
Synchrony

Erik Blomberg
VP, CISO Svenska Handelsbanken

Chapter One
What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential
The need for cyber resilience has never been greater than it is today, particularly in the financial sector. Verizon's 2021 Data Breach Investigations Report shows that the financial industry still faces an onslaught of attacks from credentials and phishing to ransomware. What's more, this industry is still heavily reliant on external parties for breach discovery--whether it's via bad actors making themselves known (38% of the incidents) or notification from monitoring services (36% of incidents).
As the SolarWinds hack of 2020 made abundantly clear, financial firms must also prioritize supply chain attacks. According to the 2021 Network Security Report from Trustwave, a suspected nation-state-level cyberattack targeting SolarWinds's Orion network monitoring tool distributed malware to approximately 18,000 SolarWinds customers. The consequences were devastating, with grave implications for corporate security and national security alike.
Financial services firms must be vigilant in maintaining their cyber resilience to combat these threats. According to Spencer Ingram, Senior Vice President of Operations at Trustwave, "You should assume a threat actor is already in your environment and `living off the land.' Proactive threat hunting supplements and reinforces existing controls and detections using the latest tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP)." These capabilities better position financial services organizations to stay ahead of current and future threats.
Then there's the issue of scalability. Financial services companies must also maintain cyber resilience at scale as the threat landscape continues to evolve at breakneck speed.
7 What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential

"Cyber resilience is the business technology imperative that not only complements cybersecurity but also enables the business to operate in a manageable manner. It should be phrased as `a way of doing business' and `preparation for hostile activity.'"
Satyajeet Rattan
Vice President of Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering, Synchrony

Doing so will help them better respond to unexpected events, like sudden shifts in the market or weather-related emergencies. Ultimately, resilience will help financial services firms maintain their competitive position in an uncertain world.
"A defender's job is extremely difficult; they need to be `right' 100% of the time, the attacker only needs to be `right' once."
Spencer Ingram Senior Vice President of Operations, Trustwave
To accomplish cyber resiliency goals, financial companies must first understand what cyber resilience means and how it determines their viability over the long term. Cyber resilience is the organizational capability to:
1. Rapidly detect threats Financial services firms often don't even know they've been breached until it's too late. A malicious actor may make themselves known, or monitoring services may alert them to a potential incident--but the damage has already been done. By reducing the mean time to detect critical threats, financial services firms can respond more quickly and mitigate any potential impacts on digital assets or the company's reputation.
2. Rapidly respond to threats A rapid response is essential for cyber resilience. Accordingly, financial services firms must identify the right strategies for reducing their mean time to respond to threats. This involves increasing the fidelity or expanding the breadth of their responses to certain threats by leveraging a combination of threat intelligence, tooling, and operational enhancements. For example, extended detection and response (XDR) delivers data visibility across networks, clouds, and endpoints. It also applies automation and analytics to enhance protection across both endpoints
8 What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential

"Cyber resilience is having the resources and capabilities to address cybersecurity threats as part of normal operations. The success criteria consist of the ability to identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover from cyberattacks with the least amount of disruption to business operations."
Erica Wilson
Vice President of Global Security
and Privacy Risk Management,
RGA

and environments. Security information event management (SIEM), meanwhile, provides the ability to easily cut through the noise and quickly respond to emerging threats. Additionally, a comprehensive incident response plan mitigates the impact of an attack.
3. Quickly recover from an incident
When a cyberattack arrives in full force, the consequences grow more severe by the minute. An organization's risk from a breach can include everything from the exposure of highly sensitive data and asset loss to accruing large fines and penalties. Arguably even more damaging is the potential loss of customer trust or the devaluation of their brand to maintaining business continuity. This level of resilience can minimize or avert financial losses, reduce or avoid legal or regulatory penalties, and potentially even safeguard a company's competitive market position.
4. Shift from a reactive stance to a proactive posture
Financial services enterprises cannot afford to maintain a reactive response model of security. A proactive posture allows organizations to prevent major data breaches and security incidents before they happen. One effective way to transition toward this posture is to adopt predictive analytics with high fidelity threat intelligence, which identifies hidden attackers in the environment and open threat vectors to identify hidden attackers in the environment as well as open threat vectors that can lead to a breach.
As the Biden Administration's recent executive order on cybersecurity states, companies must adopt a zero trust architecture security model that assumes a breach is likely or has already occurred. This approach decreases the default emphasis on constantly searching for the next attack and focuses the business on the most present and urgent risks to manage.
5. Mature into a stable and sustainable company
Without stability or sustainability, cyber resilience will remain elusive. A financial services company must be able to scale for growth, either geographically expanding and developing new lines of businesses or pursuing mergers and acquisitions while simultaneously remaining agile and keeping a close eye on evolving threats..
9 What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential

"Cyber resilience is the ability to respond to threats and events from while ensuring that the services and products remain available and operational for internal and external customers."
Muhammad Maad
Chief Information Security Officer,
Faysal Bank Limited

Key Points
Cyber resilience has never been more critical than it is today, especially in the financial sector.
Financial services organizations must also maintain their cyber resilience at scale in the face of increasingly sophisticated threats.
Cyber resilience is the organizational capability to rapidly detect, respond to, and quickly recover from an incident. Shifting from a reactive stance to a proactive, stable and consistently maturing posture are vital components of a cyber resilient organization.

"Cyber resilience is an essential component of our overall operational resilience. It is mainly aimed at withstanding external cyber threats, including supply chains and insider threats."
Erik Bromberg
Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer, Svenska Handelsbanken

10 What Cyber Resilience Is and Why It's Essential

Chapter Two
Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms
Cyber attackers, including financially motivated groups and nation-state actors, continue targeting financial services firms in large numbers. The connection financial institutions have to wealth--and the global economy--makes them perpetual high-value prey for malicious actors. As businesses continue their digital transformation, the role of the financial services sector has also evolved in both the global supply chain and various third-party partnerships. Financial services companies have capital, of course, but they also possess valuable consumer data and intellectual property that cyber attackers can sell on the dark web.
"The financial industry has always been considered the most lucrative target. As a result, financial services have also been the most frequently attacked over the past 20 years."
Kory Daniels Global Director of Threat Detection and Response Consulting, Trustwave

"The economy is becoming more and more digitized, especially in the Nordic countries, where cash is rare in the day-to-day economy. Therefore, cyber (security) resilience is vital. If the digital economy is severely interrupted by cyberattacks, it will immediately have huge impacts on society."
Erik Blomberg
Vice President,
Chief Information Security Officer,
Svenska Handelsbanken

11 Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms

The substantial bounty a financial services firm potentially offers make it both an appealing target as well as an attractive vector from a malicious actor's perspective. Rather than simply attacking a financial services firm, for example, a bad actor could potentially use a financial services firm as a means to target--or gain entry into--an entirely different organization.
Instead of just attacking a financial services firm, a bad actor may also use the financial company to target a high net worth individual or a corporate client. If a cyber criminal is able to penetrate a financial services firm's cyber defenses using a supply chain attack, for example, they may be able to access lucrative personally identifiable information (PII) or client data ranging from credit card numbers to estates or titles and beyond. From there, the cyber attacker can use that valuable information to steal funds, commit identity theft, or simply sell it to the highest bidder.
Financial services firms' cyber defense strategies and operations are critical to effectively minimize the increased risks to both their business operations and their reputations. They require costeffective and sustainable solutions to build and maintain cyber resilience at scale. For a real example of a financial organization needing increased security after a recent merger left them with exponentially more attack surface to cover, view our case study, Banking on Trust.

"The reality of FinTech speed and innovation, coupled with threat trends (including source, motivation and modus operandi, supply chain complexity, and reliance), creates a complex mix that requires not just a cybersecurity lens but a well-defined cyber resilience glue."
Satyajeet Rattan
Vice President of Cybersecurity
Architecture and Engineering,
Synchrony

12 Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms

"

"You need to proactively test and validate your documented
response playbooks as well as have an incident commander identified. When an incident occurs, muscle memory
should take over, providing confidence to act decisively and preventing paralysis and panic. Be sure to engage nontechnical
stakeholders in these playbooks.
Spencer Ingram
Senior Vice President of Operations, Trustwave
13 Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms

Key Points
Financial services firms' access to highstakes data, currency, and the global economy make them a unique target.
Cyber attackers see financial companies not just as appealing targets, but attractive vectors too.
Financial firms' cyber defense strategies and operations are critical for effectively minimizing increased risks.

"Financial services companies offering their products and services with resilience will gain customer trust and increased market share."
Muhammad Maad Chief Information Security Officer, Faysal Bank Limited

14 Cyber Resilience Challenges Facing Financial Services Firms

Chapter Three
Strategies for Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience
To determine the right strategies for building and maintaining cyber resilience, financial services firms should ask themselves the following questions:
1. Have we achieved an acceptable level of resilience with respect to our organizational risk? If so, how do we know this?
Cyber resilience can look slightly different for each financial services company depending on its business model, the threat environment in which it operates, and its future plans for expansion. That said, there are a few high-level questions that most financial firms will find useful in determining whether they have achieved an acceptable level of resilience relative to their organizational risk. Is the organization able to reduce its mean time to detect and respond to relevant threats? Can it quickly recover from an incident? And, perhaps most importantly, has it made the transition from a reactive stance to a proactive posture?
2. How confident are we in the people, processes, and technology (PPT) needed to achieve the level of resilience we require?
This is a critical question for a CIO or CISO to consider. A financial services firm's people, processes, and technology are essential to the success and viability of a company's operating model. As the business grows and new threats emerge, the PPT become even more critical still. If there are weaknesses or areas for improvement in any of these PPT categories, the organization should begin identifying the relevant gaps as well as the appropriate measures for filling them.
15 Strategies for Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience

"The impacts of remote work, sophisticated phishing schemes, challenges with addressing ransomware, and increased attacks on cloud services are top of mind for many organizations."
Erica Wilson
Vice President of Global Security
and Privacy Risk Management,
RGA

3. How will we achieve a scalable and agile cyber resilient operating model? What competencies, process improvements, and technologies will we need to continually scale and adapt in the future?
Once the company has established its current level of resilience and determined what their goal is, they must then create a scalable plan to achieve their desired level of resiliency. This can involve several elements along the people, processes, and technologies continuum. For example, a plan could include security awareness education, improved digital forensics and response capabilities, or specific managed security technologies that establish a strong first line of defense.
"Who watches the watchers? Partner with trusted third parties that use the right tools to find flaws, misconfigurations, and weaknesses."
Steve Baer Field Chief Technology Officer, Trustwave and Trustwave Government Solutions
Attaining the level of resilience required can be a heavy lift both in terms of human resources as well as budgetary investments. This is especially true if the company is in the middle of digital transformation initiatives that result in its security and IT teams juggling multiple priorities. In circumstances such as these, financial firms may benefit from working with a managed services provider that provides the full spectrum of expertise and experience required--from high-level strategy down to day-to-day operations--to reach their desired level of resilience. A trusted partner can not only help firms build and maintain resilience but also accelerate their ability to do so.

"The threat landscape is and will become even more challenging. Security is competing with (prioritized against) digitalization/business investment to push the business forward."
Erik Blomberg
Vice President,
Chief Information Security Officer,
Svenska Handelsbanken

16 Strategies for Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience

Key Points
Cyber resilience can look different for each financial services company.
Financial services firms must consider how confident they are in the people, processes, and technology (PPT) that are necessary to achieve the level of resilience they require.
Ultimately, financial firms must transition toward a scalable and agile cyber resilient operating model if they are to meet the challenges ahead.

"There are four challenges when dealing with cybersecurity: balancing tactical and strategic focus; shifting culturally; acknowledging third-party ecosystems and dependencies; and adjusting and adapting to a continuously changing threat
Satyajeet Rattan Vice President of Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering, Synchrony

17 Strategies for Building and Maintaining Cyber Resilience

Chapter Four
How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help
A strategic partnership accelerates the transition to cyber resilience. An experienced partner can help a financial services company identify the right strategies to build resilience and successfully execute them. With this in mind, consider the difference between a vendor and a partner and when it's advantageous to work with one versus the other. A vendor can implement a technology solution or carry out specific cybersecurity functions on a transactional basis. A true managed services partner, however, can provide a financial services firm with strategic guidance and expertise as the company's requirements become more sophisticated and the threat environment becomes more complex. A financial company that establishes strong and effective working relationships with the right partner early on will also find itself in a better position to quickly recover from an incident and maintain the business continuity it needs to remain competitive.
"Bring in accelerators to minimize financial risk--individuals who've gone and done this across the industry, in organizations both big and small. That way, you can ensure the best financial return."
Kory Daniels Global Director of Threat Detection and Response Consulting, Trustwave
18 How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

"A managed services partner can be a great benefit. Having experienced, dedicated resources that are essentially an extension of an organization's cyber workforce is a winning strategy."
Erica Wilson
Vice President of Global Security
and Privacy Risk Management,
RGA

To fully leverage all the benefits that a strategic partnership can provide, financial companies must find the right partner for their needs. A valued and adaptable managed services partner:
1. Enables financial services firms to reduce their vendor footprint, optimize expenditures, and reduce complexity.
This can help financial companies optimize their return on investment, reduce their total cost of ownership, and gain valuable budget flexibility that they can then use to make strategic investments as needed. Streamlining the complexity associated with maintaining multiple vendor relationships also allows financial firms to become more organizationally agile.
2. Understands financial services companies' unique requirements and challenges.
A managed services partner should be able to bring deep, sector-specific expertise to bear on a financial services company's behalf. Since the financial sector has already reached a high level of maturity compared to other verticals, it's critical to have a partner that possesses a full range of mature service capabilities and expertise. A true partner can properly advise on the strategies for resilience that are best suited to the organization's unique needs.
3. Provides expert guidance on higher level strategic issues and serves as an accelerator for becoming more resilient.
If a financial company has ambitious goals for digitally transforming and expanding their global footprint, for example, it is essential to quickly build and maintain the level of resilience that makes this possible. Accordingly, financial services firms must also consider the speed at which they can realistically become cyber resilient. A valued and adaptable managed services partner accelerates this process by augmenting a firm's capabilities wherever they are needed, helping the company confidently manage the risks it faces as it transitions toward a proactive posture.

"We have just seen a cyberattack having global implications on an MSP (Kaseya). You really need to pick your MSPs with care and a long-term view, and select those who take security seriously."
Erik Blomberg
Vice President,
Chief Information Security Officer,
Svenska Handelsbanken

19 How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

4. Helps financial services firms maintain resilience in an agile way as they scale for growth and the threat landscape continues to dynamically change.
Agility is central to maintaining cyber resilience, especially as a financial services firm grows. A managed services partner with a flexible portfolio can be of strategic value in this area, particularly in the context of a long-term relationship, delivering everything from specific services like digital forensics and incident response capabilities to custom advisory and consulting services that help the company maintain its resilience in a quickly evolving landscape.

"MSPs have abundant and qualified technical resources. They are more likely to acquire, train, and retain qualified resources than financial services companies."
Muhammad Maad
Chief Information Security Officer, Faysal Bank Limited

20 How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

"

" Managed services providers should leverage your technology with their research and prevention/detection capabilities to maximize your investments.
Steve Baer
Field Chief Technology Officer, Trustwave and Trustwave Government Solutions
21 How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

Key Points
A strategic partner can serve as an accelerator for developing cyber resilience.
This partner can also help a financial services firm maintain cyber resilience as the company's requirements become more sophisticated and the threat environment becomes more complex.
A managed services partner with a flexible portfolio can be of particular value in these cases, delivering a full range of services and capabilities that help the company maintain its resilience in a quickly evolving landscape.

"The unique value provided by an MSP is the expert capability in specific services and tools that would not be possible for individual financial services companies to attain. MSPs can deliver an end-to-end solution for their clients, which would be a challenge if they attempted it in-house."
Muhammad Maad Chief Information Security Officer, Faysal Bank Limited

22 How the Right Managed Services Partner Can Help

Learn More About Our Experts
Kory Daniels, Global Director of Threat Detection and Response Consulting, Trustwave Kory is an innovator and leader in cyber threat detection program transformation. Over the past fifteen years, Kory has overseen and supported the evolving requirements in helping organizations define, measure, and accelerate achieving their security maturity targets with fast growing midmarket firms to F500 global enterprises.
Spencer Ingram, Senior Vice President, Operations, Trustwave Spencer Ingram, Senior Vice President, Operations, drives strategy for Trustwave customer experience and systems and processes that support the overall global business. He previously served in managed security services (MSS) leadership positions at IBM and Secureworks, where he led global teams across security engineering, operations and security information and event management (SIEM). He also worked in service desk and vulnerability management to provide service delivery to thousands of global clients, representing hundreds of millions in annualized subscription revenue.
Steve Baer, Field Chief Technology Officer for the Americas, Trustwave & Trustwave Government Solutions Steven Baer is the Field CTO for the Americas at Trustwave & Trustwave Government Solutions. Known as just "Baer" to most, he has been in the InfoSec industry for more than twenty years, starting out in banking and ecommerce and then moving on to specialized technologies at RSA, Trustwave, and Dell-SecureWorks. He has also played pivotal leadership roles as virtual CISOs and executive sponsors and is an active participant in Infragard, The Chicago FBI Citizen's Academy, and on the Steering Committee for the U.S. Secret Service Chicago Electronic Crimes Task Force.
23

Erica Wilson, Vice President, Global Security and Privacy Risk Management, RGA Erica Wilson has more than twenty years of IT experience. She has worked in various industries including manufacturing, higher education, financial services, and most recently reinsurance. She has served in all capacities of security, including the role of Chief Information Security Officer. Erica is currently the VP of Global Security and Privacy Risk Management for RGA. In this role, she serves as a key advisor for the organization regarding technology risks and leads a dynamic team of professionals who ensure security and privacy issues are effectively addressed and managed.
Muhammad Maad, Chief Information Security Officer, Faysal Bank Limited Maad is the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) at Faysal Bank Limited. He has almost thirty years of experience within information technology, information security, and technology advisory services. Earlier in his career, he held positions as Executive Director ­ IT Advisory for Ernst & Young, Chief Information Officer for ZTBL, and Head of IT for HSBC Pakistan.
Satyajeet Rattan, Vice President, Cybersecurity Architecture & Engineering, Synchrony Satyajeet Rattan brings over two decades of diverse technology experience spanning multiple industry verticals with deep expertise across technology infrastructure, enterprise architecture, and cybersecurity domains. In his current role as VP of Information Security Architecture at Synchrony, he is focused on protecting the organization and its customers from the ever-changing risks and threats in the always-connected world.
Erik Blomberg, Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer, Svenska Handelsbanken Erik Blomberg is the Senior Vice President and CISO of Svenska Handelsbanken. He is an experienced leader who specializes in enterprise risk management, business alignment, international coordination, and security governance. Erik has worked more than twenty years in different management positions in Handelsbanken IT, most recently as head of UK IT, before being appointed CISO close to six years ago. Erik has his master's degree in computer science and worked as a consultant at Capgemini before joining Handelsbanken.
24

INTELLIGENCE. INFUSED.

Trustwave SpiderLabs is an elite and industry-recognized team of security researchers, ethical hackers, threat hunters, forensics investigators and responders. Globally recognized expertise for decades of discoveries, innovations and industry research. They are part of our DNA and their unrivaled intelligence is infused into all of our offerings.

www.trustwave.com

Trustwave Managed Detection and Response Services

RELENTLESS THREAT ERADICATION WITH WORLD-CLASS INTELLIGENCE AND EXPERTISE

Benefits
 Value on Day 1 with agile onboarding
 Highly-available, cloud platform with worldwide points of presence
 Effective and timely, 24x7 threat detection
 Proven threat hunting capability
 Automation-enabled, expert response
 Support for hybrid operation
 Analyst-recognized service delivery excellence

Threat actors continue to develop sophisticated attacks that are increasingly difficult to detect. Meanwhile, security operations teams struggle to detect threats in a timely manner and respond effectively, given increasing IT environment complexity and limited security resources.
Trustwave provides Managed Detection and Response services, powered with our proven Trustwave Fusion platform and best-in-class Trustwave SpiderLabs® threat intelligence and expertise. Trustwave's field-proven service excellence and analyst-lauded approach drives consistent and continuous outcomes.
Trustwave Fusion, our cloud-based Extended Detection and Response (XDR) platform provides rich API integrations to your environment to drive fast and effective detection and response outcomes. Built-in Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR) functionality enables us to enrich environment telemetry with cyberthreat intelligence, and sync and resolve findings on your systems.
Focus on the Data That Matters
Many organizations find that they have too many security tools generating too many alerts. Trustwave Fusion connects your environment to our high-capacity, streaming detection and response platform. We focus on cloud-based connection that pulls in environment telemetry from your endpoints, networks, clouds and system logs give you more usable insights from your existing security tools.
World Class People and Processes
Expertise matters when it comes to evaluating the threats and findings, making decisions, performing investigations, and doing this consistently for a predictable service outcome. Armed with hundreds of annual training hours and seasoned by hundreds of thousands of monthly investigations, our skilled practitioners understand the threats and help you make fast, accurate decisions on responses to take.
Our investigators have access to the renowned global Trustwave SpiderLabs® team for further context and research on indicators of compromise, malware and up-to-the-minute threat intelligence.
Real-Time Monitoring and Human-Led Threat Hunting
Trustwave provides real-time, 24x7 monitoring, as well as advanced threat detection using your environment telemetry along with our proprietary threat intelligence and hypothesis-driven, human-led threat hunting.
SpiderLabs threat hunters leverage our proprietary threat hunting platform to look for suspected, but hidden threats. Our elite threat hunting team has extensive and highly specialized skillsets and a keen understanding of the tactics, techniques and procedures used by malicious actors.

Trustwave Managed Detection and Response Services

Rapid Automated Response ­ Driven by Clients
We work with you to understand your specific needs and establish `rules of the road' to inform how we respond. These protocols enable our skilled analysts to make fast and effective response decisions, based on your business context.
Leveraging our integrations to your environment through the Trustwave Fusion platform, we contextualize threats using your environment telemetry and our threat intelligence. Trustwave Fusion enables threat containment actions on endpoints, clouds, networks and other supported technologies, while our analysts investigate the threat.

Extend Your Security Operations Center Capabilities
For clients with an existing SIEM, Trustwave Co-Managed Security Operations Center (SOC) services can help you get the most out of your investment, expand your team's capacity and extend the detection and response capabilities of your cyberthreat operations. We offer a comprehensive solution that maximizes SIEM ROI with proven use cases, mature SIEM management and 24x7 expert threat monitoring.

Continuous Collaboration and Transparency
We are an open book, unwavering in our approach to drive better outcomes with you through our service delivery and platform. As part of the service, each client is assigned a named client success manager who will set up a monthly review cadence to discuss topics like support tickets, escalations, and new requests to help ensure service excellence.
Collaborate in real-time via the Trustwave Fusion platform on your browser or mobile. See what our analysts see and access all the data that is collected. Ticket and chat functions are integrated into findings so that you can communicate and make changes in a way that's most convenient for you.
Managed Detection and Response Services

Our investigators have access to our renowned global SpiderLabs team for further context and research on indicators of compromise, malware and up-to-the-minute threat intelligence. Trustwave SpiderLabs is a worldrenowned team of security researchers, ethical hackers, forensics investigators and responders. Cyber threat analysts from law enforcement and military backgrounds with expertise tracking nation-state and professional criminal threat actor's offensive campaigns. Areas of expertise include:
· Security research
· Threat hunting
· Incident response
· Forensic research
· Malware reverse engineering

SERVICE ELEMENTS
Trustwave Fusion out-of-box rules and integrations and 24x7 platform access 24x7 global threat monitoring and incident response coverage Guided remediation SOAR-enabled threat containment Emerging threat hunts SpiderLabs proactive, advanced continual threat hunting SpiderLabs analyst-based remote incident response Assigned client success manager (monthly review)

ESSENTIALS Detect and contain threats before they
compromise the larger IT environment

   


ADVANCED Expand coverage
with advanced continuous threat hunts and response
actions


   



MDRS-1121

www.trustwave.com
Copyright © 2022 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.

How Augmedix Uses Trustwave MDR to Protect Vital Personal Healthcare Information
CASE STUDY

When Augmedix, a medical documentation service, realized it could not effectively keep pace with the flood of information that was arriving daily into its Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system, the company reached out to Trustwave to implement its Managed Detection and Response (MDR) solution to handle the task.

Client spotlight
Augmedix is a San Francisco-based software-driven medical documentation company that serves health systems and clinician practices across the U.S. Augmedix's solution is provided through an Augmedixsupplied smartphone or Google Glass that must be highly secure due to the personal health information that is involved. The smartphone or Google Glass device captures the natural conversation between physicians and patients, which is then processed through its Ambient Automation Platform to provide timely and comprehensive medical notes and a suite of related data services.

The Challenge
Ashfaq ul Haque, Head of Privacy & Information Security for Augmedix, explained the challenge for his firm was making certain the personal health information in its care was secure from outside threats. The company had implemented a comprehensive security and risk management framework and added a SIEM tool provided by another security firm to accomplish this task but found the product did not satisfy Augmedix's needs.
One of the first issues Augmedix recognized after putting these security measures in place was that the company needed the ability to effectively monitor the SIEM in real time and also respond to incidents.
To remedy this situation, Haque said, the company investigated either creating its own security operations center (SOC) or bringing in an outside supplier to take on that task, with Trustwave being one of the firms under consideration.
Trustwave's earlier relationship with Augmedix as its penetration testing partner gave the company a leg up on the competition. The penetration testing Trustwave conducted, per Haque, meant that we came into the discussion with a deep understanding of Augmedix's needs and system environment.
"The relationship we had with Trustwave influenced our decision to go with Trustwave," Haque said.

The Solution
The complete process of onboarding Augmedix onto Trustwave's MDR platform lasted about three months. According to Haque, the process was complex, but implementation was smooth due to Trustwave bringing in a large team that worked closely with his security personnel. "We had regular weekly meetings with the Trustwave team and even when we needed additional support - say some of our team members were having an issue understanding something - Trustwave was ready and willing to accommodate us," Haque said, adding "we were in constant touch with the Trustwave team." Much of this communication was through the account manager Trustwave assigned to the project. "The account manager was involved in the weekly meetings and would follow up afterward to handle all the action items from the meetings," Haque said. This high level of communication did not stop once the solution was installed. Augmedix continues to have regular meetings with its Trustwave account manager to discuss what the MDR platform and its Fusion interface have uncovered. "There is a monthly meeting with our account manager where we go over the threat activities that came through the Fusion portal, how many events were investigated, the open incidents or tickets that are pending and what actions need to be taken," Haque said. "Just yesterday, we were told that Trustwave MDR detected and blocked malware which got into the Augmedix environment through a phishing email," Haque said. As a Trustwave MDR partner, Augmedix is not only able to properly protect the very sensitive personal health information placed in its care by physicians and healthcare facilities, but through the Fusion platform and regular meetings with Trustwave account managers, Augmedix has a transparent and continuous look at its security status.
www.trustwave.com
Copyright © 2022 Trustwave Holdings, Inc.

A-CS-0322

