CyberGRX
Platform Guide

CyberGRX brings a revolutionary approach to third-party cyber risk management. Using sophisticated data analytics, real-world attack scenarios, and real-time threat intelligence, we provide a complete portfolio analysis of your third-party ecosystem, helping you to prioritize your risks and make smarter decisions.

The CyberGRX Approach to Reducing Risk

Third-party cyber risk management is more than just assessments and security ratings. Effective vendor risk management should provide confidence that the organization has the most reliable and well-rounded views of cyber risk across their entire third-party ecosystem. The CyberGRX approach is focused around integrating standardized assessment data with advanced machine-learning algorithms in order to provide a comprehensive view of the risk intelligence data that matters most to you and your business. Because our third-party assessment is both comprehensive and standardized, we're able to reduce the time you spend on bespoke or redundant assessments. Our structured dataset allows for comparing or benchmarking third parties, allowing for benchmarking of across industries, geographies, and common attack scenarios while still enabling customizable data outputs as well.

With the CyberGRX platform you can:
· Drive rapid results with dynamic third-party risk data and advanced analytics that provide a real-time and prioritized view of critical risk
· Identity critical risk areas and prioritize resources using Predictive Risk Intelligence capabilities
· Manage an evolving third-party ecosystem with a collaborative, crowd-sourced Exchange featuring a repository of validated and predictive assessment data
· Identify trends and create benchmarks by leveraging structured data and actionable intelligence
· Enable stronger relationships between customers and third parties through proactive risk mitigation

Platform Guide

© Copyright CyberGRX

Platform Guide

CyberGRX Exchange
CyberGRX has the world's first and largest third-party cyber risk Exchange, with rich risk data on more than 130,000 companies. Our Exchange was created using a standardized dataset of risk assessments from more than 9,000 companies. Using a true Exchange model, CyberGRX provides third parties with a single place to create a security profile on the Exchange and enables them to share with their customers as needed to ensure real-time risk management collaboration. In addition, customers can see their third parties' security profile, analyze and monitor them against their own controls, and work together on a risk remediation strategy.

CyberGRX Third-Party Assessment
CyberGRX cloud-based assessments are the industry's most comprehensive assessment methodology to manage risk across security, privacy, and business continuity. Our standardized and structured data approach provides a foundation for analysis and benchmarking, and with the Exchange model we always show a vendor's most current security posture. The CyberGRX Assessment satisfies privacyrelated requirements, focusing on the Identification, Governance, Control, Communication, and Protection of data which means comprehensive coverage for increasingly global privacy regulations.

Auto-Inherent Risk
CyberGRX's industry-first Auto-Inherent Risk Insights provides contextualized and automated risk insights based on your specific relationship with a vendor. These insights allow you to instantly create and prioritize a risk mitigation and assessment strategy. Members can automate inherent risk insights across their entire vendor portfolio via crowdsourced data from the exchange to ensure their vendors' security postures are continuously monitored based on domain, cyber hygiene, and industry intelligence. Auto-Inherent Risk Insights also allow for vendor benchmarking across industry, ecosystem, and similar vendors in the exchange.

Platform Features
Predictive Risk Intelligence
CyberGRX's sophisticated Predictive Risk Intelligence allows Exchange members to access advanced insights powered by the power of machine learning in order to monitor and analyze their third-party ecosystem. Predictive Risk Intelligence is a groundbreaking set of capabilities that shifts the entire third-party risk management goal from assessment collection to risk analysis and remediation.
Predictive Risk Assessment The foundation of all the Predictive Risk Intelligence capabilities, our Predictive Risk Assessment powers our predictive model before any analysis is applied.
Predictive Risk Profile Predictive Risk Profiles provide you with a dynamic view of your risk surface. Every company on the CyberGRX Exchange has a risk profile that includes actionable information such as risk surface score, risk maturity, control coverage, and top risks. This powerful view enables you to make quick decisions on individual third parties, providing more certainty of your risk posture than ever before. Predictive Risk Profiles are also viewable by third parties which provide an opportunity to genuinely collaborate together to develop an informed and prioritized remediation strategy.
The risk posture of your third parties is continuously monitored based on the domain cyber hygiene and industry intelligence gleaned from our industry partners.

Platform Guide
Customized Risk & Threat Views
Compliance to common frameworks and standards in relation to security and privacy continues to be a priority for many industries while being able to identify areas of risk based on current cyberattacks is also a concern. The following capabilities allow CyberGRX members to view risk through the lens that matters most to them.
Framework Mapper Our Framework Mapper feature maps to most customer controls as well as industry standards and frameworks such as NIST ­800.53, NIST-CSF, ISO 27001, PCI-DSS, HIPAA, etc. It takes standard data as input and produces custom output across many custom and industry framework controls to quickly and easily provide risk identification, visibility, and reduction. CyberGRX Threat Profiles Included in the Framework Mapper are our threat profiles which focus on real-life attacks such as ransomware. These Threat Profiles allow you to view individual third parties and their coverage of specific controls being exploited in the attack as identified by the MITRE ATT&CK framework. Breach Monitoring & Alerting Breach Monitoring & Alerting capabilities give you automatic alerts to third-party breaches within your portfolio in near real-time. This provides visibility to vital information and context needed to assess the possible impact on your business and collaborate with the affected third party to assess and manage the risk.
Attack Scenario Analytics Our Attack Scenario Analytics data capabilities are based on MITRE ATT&CK® Framework and enable CyberGRX members to better understand gap recommendations in order to improve the overall defensibility of their ecosystem. CyberGRX is the only third-party cyber risk company to have mapped the entirety of their risk analytics platform with 150+ MITRE killchains based on the most impactful recent attacks.
Platform Efficiencies and Ease of Use Features
CyberGRX makes continual improvements to the overall platform to make collaboration and platform use easier.
Portfolio Management Table Our Portfolio Management table provides enhanced ecosystem visibility and self assessment delivery predictability in a single management component.
Action Required Tab The Action Required tab supports the in-platform assessment ordering and provides timely, accurate, and actionable status updates about at-risk assessment requests.
Evidence Upload and Validation Our evidence upload and evidence validation features allow third parties to upload their validation documents directly into the platform as well as provide viewing permissions to requestors for a limited window.
Third-Party Invite Link The Third-Party Invite Link Generator provides a registration/claim company invitation link in the company profile page after ordering on a third party. This helps drive successful third-party engagement in case the automated claim company email is not received or is sent to an incorrect third-party contact.
Open API The CyberGRX platform has an open API which allows for integration into additional tools, such as a GRC platform, allowing for efficient and seamless workflow connection to when collecting and managing assessments.

The leader in Cyber Risk Intelligence
CyberGRX strives to map the cybersecurity reputation of every company in the world. As the leader in third-party cyber risk intelligence, we are driven by sophisticated data analytics and advanced machine learning to help you modernize your approach to third-party cyber risk management. CyberGRX members
can regain control of their cyber risk reputation and strengthen third-party relationships through collaborative, proactive risk mitigation and a focus on rapid, data-driven decision making.
Join the World's Largest Third-Party Cyber Risk Exchange
Visit www.CyberGRX.com for more info

