Cyber Risk Management
Simplification. Assurance. Resilience.

TruOps delivers an integrated security, risk and compliance management cloud-based platform to address the challenges of over engineered, complex GRC implementations.
The software uniquely combines risk management with insider and external threat intelligence to give enterprises a holistic view of risk.

A Comprehensive Cyber Risk Management Solution

Risk-Based Vulnerability Management
Consolidate disparate information and relationships to enable intelligent and automated choices with TruOps' RiskBased Vulnerability Management solution.

Vendor Risk Management
Automate and streamline oversight of vendor relationships. Rely on TruOps' Vendor Risk Management module to assess, monitor, and report on third parties and perform due diligence to the vendor risk management process.

Risk Management
Integrate risk management processes with TruOps' Risk Management solution. It empowers everyone, and every process involved in risk management.

Issue Management
Automate identification, planning, and response processes with TruOps' Issue Management solution. Utilize this module to manage plans and actions, and to allocate appropriate resources to resolve issues on time.

Exception Management
Reduce the risk of compliance violations with TruOps' Exception Management solution. The powerful exception management framework replicates and automates existing processes to save user time & effort. .

Compliance Management
Take control of the complete compliance lifecycle and enhance governance of compliance-related activities with TruOps' Compliance Management solution., making it easy to manage and meet requirements.

How does TruOps solve the challenges faced by businesses and their teams?

Process Simplification & Automation
Unified Compliance Simplified Regulatory
Supervision

Compliance Assurance & Reduced TCO
Continuous compliance by continuous control
monitoring Real-time visibility into risk

Cyber Risk Resilience
Risk Insight Informed decision making

Creating value for our customers

Automated the risk assessment of 3000 mission critical applications across 14 business units

Balanced Scorecard Metric reporting process time reduced from 2 months to 2

Reduced end-to-end audit process time from 9 months to 6 weeks

Deployed our Cyber Risk Management solution in just 6 weeks and strengthened the risk & compliance posture with automation

Expedited executive decision making with actionable intelligence & interactive dashboards

+1 (203) 866 - 8886

sales@truops.com

www.truops.com

Get a Holistic view of your Risk Environment
TruOps helps you streamline your internal processes and empower your teams to manage risks. It Improves resiliency, enables you to make smarter decisions, and to realize ROI as soon as you go live.

Immediate Value
Simplify your GRC implementation and realize an ROI as soon as you go live.

Actionable Insight
TruOps delivers risk-based insights to help you make informed investment decisions and optimize your cyber risk initiatives.

Risk Management
Don't wait for slow, complex, or long cycle implementation from legacy GRC providers. Opt for TruOps, an easily deployable cloud-based solution.

Simple Interface
Our simple-by-design interface makes critical information easy to find so you spend less time searching and more time managing your risks.

Risk Intelligence
Combine risk management with insider and external threat intelligence to give your enterprise a holistic view of risk and drive automated actions.

Regulation Readiness
You receive a pre-built pack based on industry standards and partnership with Unified Compliance Framework to keep up with changing regulations.

TruOps Platform & Integrations

SaaS - Hosted

Identity & Access Management

Interactive Dashboards & Reports
Intuitive Interface

AI, Cognitive, Configurable Analytics & ML Workflows

Simple-bydesign
Framework

Auditing & Forensics

Integrations - No Code Collector
Rule Engine

Cloud On-Premise Apps Structured Data Un-Structured Data 3rd Party Integrations

Secure Access and Data Protection

Threat & Vulnerability Management
IT Asset & Service Management
Atrium

Features - for CxOs and Practioners

Dashboards & Reports

No-code collector and integrations

AI, Cognitive & Analytics

Configurable Workflows

Access Control & Security

Auditing & Forensics

Simple-by-design framework

Flexible Deployment Models

User-friendly, intuitive interface

+1 (203) 866 - 8886

sales@truops.com

www.truops.com

