One Place to Manage and Streamline Your Compliance Programs
Streamline information security and privacy compliance across the enterprise -- including SOC, ISO, PCI, NIST, CMMC, GDPR, NYDFS, and more -- in one integrated solution.
SIMPLIFY MANAGEMENT INCREASE EFFICIENCY IMPROVE COLLABORATION

Assess Once and Comply with Multiple Frameworks
 Create Common Controls -- Easily link framework requirements, controls, and risks to create common controls across frameworks and standards.
 Reduce Duplicative Work -- Leverage the common controls crosswalk to visualize the overlap across frameworks and avoid audit fatigue.
 Streamline Gap Analysis -- Become compliant with additional frameworks more quickly by easily identifying compliance gaps between your organization and frameworks or industry standards.
SIMPLIFY TESTING TO AVOID AUDIT FATIGUE
" In our work across our required audits, such as SOX, ISO 27001, and SOC 1, there is a fair amount of overlap in controls resulting in duplicative testing.
Through the use of AuditBoard, we have visibility to the common set of controls across all required audits, and can easily export a matrix of the coverage and testing performed across all domains.
JOYLINE JACOB WARNEKE | CSG Internal Audit Manager
Keep Assessments and Tasks on Track
 Real-Time Status -- Get visibility into the results of assessments across frameworks and save time creating status reports.
 Built-in Workflow -- Leverage built-in workflows to streamline self-assessments, audit readiness assessments, and controls testing.
 Automate Evidence Collection -- Save administrative time spent on evidence collection and follow-ups. Once approved, evidence can be easily shared with external assessors.
 Robust User Permissions -- Reduce time liaising with consultants, auditors, and regulators by providing them role-based access to the platform.

Establish Ownership and Oversight for Issues and Exceptions
 Create Accountability -- Engage remediation owners to validate issues and put action plans into place. Eliminate manual follow-ups with automated notifications and reminders.
 Update Once, Update Everywhere -- Save time by updating documentation one time. The platform will instantly update associated control pages, issue logs, and reports.
 Simplify Action Plans -- Leverage workflows to create action plans, track milestones, and manage remediation.
Manage the Entire Policy Lifecycle
 Centralize Policy Management -- Simplify how you manage policies by centralizing policy creation, review, approval, and dissemination to all stakeholder groups.
 Streamline Policy Review -- Ensure policies stay up to date with a built-in change management workflow and automated reminders. Obtain and track approvals from key stakeholders, including your organization's board or commi ee.
 Perform Application Mapping -- Get visibility into the relationships between policies, controls, and requirements. Quickly identify policy gaps through a singular matrix view that highlights unmapped framework requirements.
 Improve Version Control -- Quickly determine which policy is in e ect, and as of when. Easily reference prior versions as needed.

Get Real-Time Insights into Your Compliance Program
 Automate Status Reporting -- Save time creating operational and executive-level reports and dashboards. View the status and results of assessments at a glance. Quickly identify bo lenecks and assign corrective actions.
 View Control Maturity Trends -- Implement your maturity model and measure control performance against your desired maturity level.
 Track Issues in Real Time -- Get visibility into identified issues, gaps, vulnerabilities, and action plans with visual dashboards and powerful reports. Drill down into specific frameworks to slice and dice as desired.
 Visualize Program Impact -- Leverage state-of-the-art business intelligence and data visualization to demonstrate the business value added through assessments, issues resolved, and risks mitigated.
SAVE TIME ON ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS
" AuditBoard's Jira integration has helped us reduce manual e orts involved in our quarterly user access review process. They continue to be a great partner in helping us achieve our goal of automating our compliance process as much as humanly possible.
EDWIN MIRZAYANS | The Trade Desk Senior Manager, Technical Compliance
Manage Compliance Across Controls and Frameworks
With AuditBoard CrossComply, you can simplify compliance management across a broad array of industry standards and requirements, including:

Elevate Your Risk Management Programs
Execute the identification, assessment, response, mitigation, and monitoring of risks -- in a highly integrated, visual, and intuitive way.
CENTRALIZE RISK MANAGEMENT GAIN VISIBILITY INTO RISKS STREAMLINE RISK ACTIVITIES STAY AHEAD OF RISK

Centralize and Unify Risk Data
 Standardize Risks -- Increase collaboration and create a common language for risk across the organization.
 Provide Confidence -- Ensure the timeliness, quality, and availability of risk data and trends.
 Increase Visibility -- Unify and visualize risk data in one central location to gain a holistic view of your risk environment.
 Save Time -- Link risks, controls, and mitigating activities across the AuditBoard platform to avoid needing to copy/paste changes throughout documentation.
GAIN A HOLISTIC PICTURE OF RISK
" This is exactly what I'd been looking for! RiskOversight gives us a more sophisticated view into our risk universe by centralizing all the risk information into a single place. STEVE HIZAK | United Bankshares Senior Audit Manager
Streamline Your Risk Management Program
 Automate Risk Assessments -- Distribute assessments to appropriate stakeholders in just a few clicks.
 Dynamically Score Risk -- Collect impact, likelihood, controls strength, and other risk criteria ratings.
 Customize for Your Process -- Flexibly perform risk surveys or interviews to fit your unique risk assessment process.
 See Real-Time Responses -- Easily aggregate risk assessment results with a real-time visual summary of survey responses.
 Increase Accountability -- Engage business owners with awardwinning user experience and unlimited user licenses.

Gain Visibility into Top Risks, Risk Trends, and Risk Appetite
 Drive Key Decisions -- Inform audit, risk, and compliance programs with dashboards and heatmaps that visualize top risks.
 Gain Risk Coverage -- Easily link controls or mitigating activities being performed by audit or compliance across the AuditBoard platform.
 Visualize Outcomes -- Perform trend analysis and measure the e ectiveness of your e orts through real-time visualizations.
 Proactively Manage Risk -- Monitor key risk indicators and early warning indicators to address potential issues before they arise.
EASILY SURFACE KEY INFORMATION
" RiskOversight enhances our annual audit planning process and allows us to leverage information that would otherwise be le in emails and spreadsheets. LAURA THIELEN | PetSmart Senior Corporate Internal Auditor
Drive Mitigation Action Plans
 Simplify Assignments -- Create and assign action plans to owners with a single click.
 Streamline Workflow -- Leverage built-in workflows to manage action plans with speed and e ciency.
 Easily Track Progress -- Get instant visibility into remediation progress and automate follow up on outstanding tasks.

Integrate With Your Technology Ecosystem
Leverage the industry's most modern platform to connect with the other applications your organization uses. Whether you use one of our prebuilt integrations or our flexible API, the possibilities are endless.

The Modern Connected Risk Platform
Elevate your audit, risk, and compliance teams with the intelligent, collaborative, connected risk management platform.
With audit, risk, and compliance data all in a single system of record, not only do you have a complete view of risk across the enterprise, but now your teams are connected and aligned, and can collaborate like never before.
Deploy the complete platform or only the solutions you need.

Centralize and streamline SOX documentation, testing, and reporting in one simple solution that brings together audit teams, external auditors, control owners, and executives.

Streamline audit planning, fieldwork, testing, and reporting in one intuitive platform, and enable your team to take on more strategic projects.

Elevate your risk management programs -- including the identification, assessment, response, mitigation, and monitoring of risks -- in a highly integrated, visual, and intuitive way.

Copyright  2021 AuditBoard Inc.

