Making Security Personal With Personas
George Finney Chief Security Officer Southern Methodist University

"Everything is personal...if you're a person."

Inventive Curious Efficient Organized Outgoing Energetic Friendly Compassionate Sensitive Nervous

OPENNESS CONSCIENTIOUSNESS
EXTRAVERSION AGREEABLENESS
NEUROTICISM

Consistent Cautious
Easy-going Careless Solitary Reserved
Challenging Detached Secure Confident

Verbal Aural

Physical
Learning Styles

Logical Social

Visual

Solitary

INTJ

Employee Life Cycle

Recruit

Onboard

Grow

Retain

Engagement

Offboard

Reputation Expectations Innovate

Incentives Feedback

Jailbroken Android

JTaaiblbleroaukePnoAwnedrrUoisder

Personality

Eddie Executive ­ INTJ ­ Risk Score 8.7

Name: Eddie Gender: Male
Age: 49 Education: MBA
Access: High Tech: Tech
Location: San Francisco Tenure: 2.5 years
"Technology has transformed the way we do business."

Motivation:
Eddie gets emotional when he talks about the people in his company. He's been with the company for 10 years and has worked his way up. As a consequence, he believes in hard work and commitment. His schedule takes him all over the world, but staying in touch with his team is important. Finding the time to make everything happen is his biggest challenge.
Goals:
·Wants to be able to grow the company by 15% this year. ·Considering acquiring several regional firms to increase market share. ·Would like to spend less time on the road and more time with his family.

Technology:
Eddie is tech savvy and has set up his own Wordpress blog and has a raspberry pi in his office that he tinkers with occasionally.
Hobbies:
·Golf and Off Road Jeeps. ·Coaching kids Baseball Team.
Online Habits: ·Constantly reads Reddit, but seldom posts. ·Primary search engine ­ DuckDuckGo ·Family members may share home computers

Frustrations:
Last year, Eddie experienced identity theft for the first time. It took valuable time away from his work and nearly cost the company a major customer. Since then, he's wondered whether his computer has been hacked when it doesn't work as expected. Eddie understands the value of security, but he can't keep up every day with all the new threats that are announced. At the same time, he has to prioritize his work over reading or responding to IT emails or newsletters.

Prompt

Behavior

Reward

Sample Recipes.

When I stand
1. up from my
desk...

I will lock my computer

...then eat a reeses peanut
butter cup.

2.

At the end of the day...

I will clean off my desk and lock up important papers

Prompt

Behavior

...then play my favorite song in the
car.
Reward

Questions?

George Finney ­ george@wellawaresecurity.com twitter.com/wellawaresecure LinkedIn.com/in/georgefinney

