VC Investment Bubble And Security Startup Boom
Dr. Fengmin Gong Co-Founder & Chief Strategy Officer
Target the threats that target you.

Outline
o Cloudy With A Chance Of Bubble o White Hot Security Startup o What's China Got To Do With It? o White-Hot Cybersecurity Market o What's There For You?

Billion Dollar Club, Exciting!
o If you are in NOW, and can exit BEFORE the bubble bursts

Are You In It?
o Congratulations if you are o Otherwise, no despair, I am only showing the top 8

Interesting Unicorn Stats

Total tracked

Still private (2015/2) In China

All Industry

116

96

19

Software

35

31

0

Software/Security

7

7

0

Consumer Internet 25

23

5

o "The Billion Dollar Startup Club", Wall Street Journal, By Scott Austin, Chris Canipe and Sarah Slobin
http://graphics.wsj.com/billion-dollar-club/

Two Paths Of Successful Exit
o IPO ­ Initial Public Offering
oDrought season since PANW, FEYE
o Merge & Acquisition
oTerm Sheet ­ Monday, August 31, 2015 "The only thing growing faster than M&A activity in 2015 is withdrawn M&A activity. Thomson Reuters reports that while global M&A is up 37% year-to-date, the bump in canceled deals is a whopping 53% (representing nearly $336 billion in pulled transactions)."

Chance Of Bubble With VC Investment?

Bubbles Are Anomalies In The Market

Spectacular Bubbles Of The Past

Dutch Tulip price bubble 1636

Stock Market bubble 1929

Housing Market bubble 2008

South Sea Company

Dot-com Stock

?

stock price

bubble

bubble 1720

2000

VC Valuation Hype Factors
1. Strong Motivation 2. Deep Pocket 3. Overflowing Euphoria 4. Inability To See With Clarity

F1 ­ 10 Billion Exits
o FOMO Syndrome
o"Fear Of Missing Out" We missed out on FAGA once!
oData analytics is hot, we've got to invest!
o But they can't tell if others are
 greedy or fearful now

F2 ­ Too Much Money
o QE-I, QE-2, 0% Fed rate o "Past performance does not
guarantee future return, but look at FAGA ­ Facebook, Amazon, Google, Apple ­ success!" o Greed is infectious - retirement fund, mutual fund moved from public market to VC investment! o Maybe, 10-year cycle makes VC investment less of a "venture"

Euphoria Definition
is medically recognized as a mental and emotional condition in which a person experiences intense feelings of well-being, elation, happiness, excitement and joy
o Success recipe: user count now, monetize later o Making It Big without IPO:
oWhatsapp bought @$21.8B; Snapchat valued @$16B

F4 ­ Desire Versus Ability
o Clarity For Potential-Reality distance, ROI
oLack of domain expertise by VCs oLack of historical data on new tech areas
o Less visibility into private companies

According To Robert Shiller

Should You Invest In Stock Market?
oYes 4 US Market oStart early oDollar price averaging oBuy index fund
oCaution 4 China Market oBrave ones: follow the government the FIRST TIME oWeak of heart: watch with patience, invest when gov stays away

Cybersecurity Startup Opportunity Is Exceptional

o Sophisticated financial & data crimes
oCarbanak attack on banks o"Pump & Dump" attack on Wall Street oAnthem, Blue cross and Blue shield, OPM breaches

Continuous Monitoring

Incident Response

Risk Management

o More useful tools o Practicing security o Government rules & regulations

The Market Is White-Hot
o Per Alberto Yepez, Managing Director, Trident Capital o$1.77 Billion VC investment 2014 compared to $1.62 Billion in 2000 oTotal $7.3 billion invested in 1,208 since 2010 (data from CB Insights)
o Big Drivers o$100 billion annual cyber attack loss in US, GROWING oCybersecurity spending to INCREASE, from 4% to 7% of IT oMore innovative tools are needed!

Top 7 Hot Areas
1. Behavior data analytics for anomaly 2. Security payment and fraud 3. Security for IoT 4. NG identity & access control platform 5. Inside threat monitoring & response 6. Threat intelligence infrastructure 7. Security ecosystem solution

Strategy To Innovate
oCreate what Chinese businesses need for their security defense, go to Latin America & Mideast with ease
oCreate what US businesses need for their security defense, go to North America & Europe with ease
oWatch development on Wassenaar Arrangement, to leverage global security research talents effectively

You Must Know The Differences

o Gov. cybersecurity investment
o Discourage use of foreign products
o Compliance #1 driver
o Price #1 criteria
o Personal attention #1 enterprise concern
o Hardware appliance still preferred

o Gov. cybersecurity investment
o Discourage use of foreign products
o Risk mgmt #1 driver o Functionality #1 criteria o Robustness #1 enterprise
concern o Software & VM gaining favor

Target the threats that target you.
Thank You!
@FengminGong fgong@cyphort.com
CYPHORT Confidential

