Findings and Expectations from cooperative works
with ASEAN Member States
October 2, 2019

1. Overview of AJ-CPM: ASEAN-Japan Cybersecurity Policy Meeting
2. Introduction of an activity of AJ-CPM: Voluntary Mutual Notification Program Government owned website defacement

ASEAN-Japan Cybersecurity Policy Meeting
AJ-CPM;
 A framework of Cybersecurity Authorities for promoting cybersecurity policy cooperation among ASEAN Member States and Japan.
 NISC, Japan serves as secretariat of AJ-CPM.
 Established in 2009
 Acknowledged at "ASEAN-Japan Ministerial Policy Meeting on Cybersecurity Cooperation" in 2013.

We believe that a secure cyberspace is one of the major drivers in innovation as well as being essential in promoting social and economic activities and strengthening ASEAN connectivity
The "Joint Ministerial Statement" of the Meeting (13 Sep, 2013)
 Encourages to promote joint efforts in the areas of:
1. Creating a secure business environment 2. Building a secure information and communication network 3. Enhancing capacity for cyber security

Member Agencies

Member Agencies of AJ-CPM

Cybersecurity Authority

National CSIRT

Brunei NSC

BruCERT

Cambodia MPTC

CamCERT

Indonesia BSSN

ID-SIRTII/CC

Japan NISC

NISC, JPCERT/CC

Laos MPT

LaoCERT

Malaysia NACSA

NC4

Myanmar

MOTC, NCSC (of MOTC)

mmCERT

Philippines DICT

NCERT

Singapore CSA

SingCERT

Thailand MDES

ThaiCERT

Vietnam AIS

VNCERT

ASEAN Secretariat

Cooperative Agency
MCIT MIC, METI, MOFA, JPCERT/CC, JICA, IPA, JC3 MCMC
MCI ETDA

Collaborative Activities (CAs) under AJ-CPM
 The AJ-CPM has endorsed to promote 8 CAs.
 Yearly activity that all Member Agencies are participating.  Lead by "Lead Country"  Output should be reported to AJ-CPM.
1. Cyber Exercise (Lead by Japan)
 Plan and conduct two types of cyber exercise
2. CIIP Workshop (Lead by Indonesia)
 Plan and conduct a one day Workshop for policy makers to learn best practice of CIIP
3. Joint Awareness Raising (Lead by Brunei)
 Share the practices and materials of awareness raising

Collaborative Activities (CAs) under AJ-CPM
4. Capacity Building (Lead by Thailand)
 Share the information of the training courses for AMS
5. Voluntary Mutual Notification Program (Lead by Japan)
 Voluntary notify threat information when one country find sign or incident in another country
6. Online Community for Policy Maker (Lead by Singapore)
 Facilitate the web-based "Online Community" for sharing information include press release and reports
7. ASEAN-Japan Cybersecurity Reference (Lead by ASEAN Secretariat)
 Maintain the Reference
8. WG Steering (Lead by Japan)
 Plan and review collaborative activities for next and following years

Voluntary Mutual Notification Program
Case AJ01: Government owned website defacement

Case AJ01:Government owned website defacement
 Attackers embed redirect code in the government website for leading the web crawlers to a fake shopping site
 A SEO (Search Engine Optimization) technique for attracting more people to the fake shopping site.
 The site can earn high page rank of the search engine.
 The embedded URL is not visible for the visitors of government website.
 The victim:
 not only the customers of the fake shopping website  but also administrators of government website.

Government Attacker

How to find? It's quite simple.
 The customer looking for the products at the search engine will be misleaded to the fake shopping site.

search engine: google.co.jp

language setting: Japanese

query:

Luis Vuitton .gov

Example: search result
gov.pk (Pakistan) gov.tr Turkey gov.my (Malaysia) gov.vn (Viet Nam)

Example: Compromised website and embedded code
embedded code
source html file of the government official website

Example: Fake Shopping Site
The targeted customer is not only Japanese

"Revealed Threat of Fake Store" 2018, JC3 and APWG  Please refer to the report for more
detail of AJ01 by JC3 and APWG
 Japan Cybercrime Control Center  Anti Phishing Working Group, US
https://www.jc3.or.jp/about/pdf/JC3_APWG_Revealed_Threat_of_Fake_Store.pdf

Coordinated action of AJ-CPM
 AJ-CPM has been aware of the case AJ01 and decided to take voluntary coordinated action against it, since 2018.
 AJ-CPM focus on the compromised government website
 Cybersecurity of the government owned website is the duty of the Cybersecurity Authority and National CSIRT.
 AJ-CPM don't focus on the fake shopping site
 The law enforcement community is already working for it.  AJ-CPM will collaborate with them if needed.

Capacity building for AMS
 Some government websites have some vulnerability and the attacker abuse it.
 Some of the AMS need help for better awareness and taking proper security measures.
 The attacker may do some more serious things on the website.
 What we should do first is capacity building for AMS officials.
 Japan, as a secretariat of the AJ-CPM, is coordinating with Cybersecurity Authorities of AMS to develop capacity building course.
 Case AJ01 would be used as a good case study for making this capacity building project in a more practical manner.

Strategy
 Short term: individual cybersecurity capability
 Develop training course for National CSIRTs  create education materials specialized to the case AJ01
 Improve domestic information sharing network  share the knowledge with local office and get better awareness
 Long term: collective cybersecurity capability
 Enhance international information sharing  create the culture of the cybersecurity  foster trust among AMS and international partners
 Outcome: improve cyber hygiene in the region
 Stimulate discussion for ASEAN Regional CERT

Action Items

Develop training Develop learning course for National materials CSIRTs

JICA has started to develop the materials for webserver security. The materials would be shared with AMS.

Improve domestic Develop a reference AJ-CPM has developed the scenario

information sharing model for information for "Cyber Exercise" focusing on the

network

sharing

domestic/international information

sharing. This scenario can be used as

a reference model to find gaps on

existing network of each AMS.

Raise awareness of JC3 gives a lecture for AJ-CPM the case AJ01

Enhance

Designate POC for

international

international

information sharing coordination

AJ-CPM maintain International POC list of AMS and Japan

Seeking for your collaboration
 Your knowledge and experience would be valuable for AJ-CPM to tackle with the case AJ01.
 situational awareness of the case AJ01 and similar case  technical skills / check lists for web server protection  good practices / policy framework for web server protection
 It is welcomed if you have any idea of practical partnership with AJ-CPM.
 technical information sharing (IoC, TTP, technical reports, ...)  capacity building (seminar, workshop, technical training, ...)
 Contact:
 International Strategy Group, NISC, Japan  email: poc@nisc.go.jp

Thank you for your attention

