Industry Update: Movement toward https

Dean Coclin

Senior Director of Business Development Symantec Website Security

Agenda

1 What's new in the Industry? 2 Phishing 3 Encryption Everywhere

Agenda

1 What's new in the Industry? 2 Phishing 3 Encryption Everywhere

HTTP WILL BECOME A THING OF THE PAST

Browsers Will Warn Users of Non-https Connections

Chrome plans to warn users when pages are
insecure (non-https)

Type chrome://flags and select: "Mark non-secure
origins as non-secure" to test
behaviour

US Government Moving to All https
Out of 1166 domains!
Source: pulse.cio.gov

Powerful Features Only on https
1. Geolocation (Chrome 50) 2. Device Motion/Orientation 3. Fullscreen 4. getUserMedia
(Camera/Mic) 5. Encrypted Media
Extension (DRM)
See: https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/deprecating-powerful-features-on-insecure-origins

http2 over https only

Chrome Firefox

IE

Edge Safari Opera

Significantly faster!

Improved Referrer Data
· http Website Operator: "Where did that guy come from?"
· Source (https): Sorry I can't tell you because you are not using https
· MORAL: Use https for your own site and improve your referrer data!

What does this

mean?

· The site is safe? · The site is secure? · The site is patched up to date and has no vulnerabilities? · I know who the site claims to be? · The site is free of malware? · I can trust the site? · If I buy something, I can be sure they will deliver?
SOMEONE has control of the domain...
The data is encrypted!

But who controls the domain? Who can request a cert for dean.example.com?

· Dean Coclin, author of the content and logical operator of the dean.example.com origin

· Example.com, provider of hosting services for Dean Coclin

· CDN Corp, a CDN that provides SSL/TLS front-end services for example.com, which does not offer them directly

WHAT

SHOULD GO

· Marketing Inc, the firm responsible for designing and maintaining the website on behalf of Dean Coclin

IN THE

· Payments LLC, the payment processing firm responsible for "O" FIELD?

handling orders and financial details on dean.example.com

· DNS Org, the company who operates the DNS services on behalf of Dean Coclin

· Mail Corp, the organization who handles the MX records that dean.example.com responds to

What Do These Mean?
Consistent, Universal, Global, No learning curve!

Consistency Matters

http or https?

Industry Stats
+39% growth from May 2015
May 2016: 4.84M certificates

DV

OV

76.1%

21%

EV
3.1%

Top Million Busiest Sites
All Certificates
EV, 3%
OV, 21% DV, 76%

Top Million

EV, 16%

OV, 37%

DV, 47%

DV OV EV
Source: Netcraft Data May 2016

DV OV EV

The Leader in Website Security

Market Share Top Million

Top Million Netcraft Sites
40%

35%

30%

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0% Symantec Comodo GoDaddy

Digicert Globalsign Entrust Market Share - Top Million

Startcom

Let's Encrypt

Other

Number of certificates

Certificates Switching to Let's Encrypt
Source of gained certificates
1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000
800 600 400 200
0

Dean's Predictions
· Certificate usage will continue to grow  6.5 to 7.5M in 12 months
­ Fueled by https initiatives and EE!
· SNI servers will show increased growth · SHA-1 usage will decline dramatically (and so will XP!) · Phishing using DV certs will continue to increase · Chrome will be on the bleeding edge of changes and
enforcements · IPv6 will finally be adopted for CRL and OCSP lookups

Agenda

1 What's new in the Industry? 2 Phishing 3 Encryption Everywhere

Phishing

Phishing certs found by Netcraft (May 2016)

Comodo GoDaddy Let's Encrypt Symantec Globalsign Other

6% 5% 6% 6%
16%

61%

Source: http://toolbar.netcraft.com/stats/certificate_authorities

35% of Comodo certs issued by Cloudflare

Recent phishing example sites

Let's Encrypt
· paypal-4updates.com · icloud-unlock.pl · icloud-lostapple.info · www.verif-icloud.com · restore-amazon.com · intl-paypal.hotchat.online

Comodo
· net-flix.one · amazom.ml · paypal-security.center · p.aypal.info · safe-payment.online · pypal-account-
information.info

Phishers know how to do SSL correctly!

Summary
· DV: Easy to get by legitimate users and cybercriminals · Phishers getting more adept at creating look-alike
domains
­ xn--80aj7b8a.com  .com ­ xn--secure-ank-yzi.com  secure-ank.com ­ ltunes.com ­ paypl.com ­ ww.vv-paypal.com ­ icl0ud.ru.com
· Ecosystem partners must work together

Agenda

1 What's new in the Industry? 2 Phishing 3 Encryption Everywhere

Symantec Encryption
EVERYWHERE
is changing the game

What percent of current websites have no authentication, no validation, no trust seal, and no encryption?
97%

In 2014, what percentage of websites had vulnerabilities?
75%
of the websites Symantec scanned for vulnerabilities were found to have issues

What percentage of vulnerabilities were classified as critical?
20%
The percentage of vulnerabilities classified as "critical" increased
by 30% from 2013 to 2014.

Drivers to Encryption
EVERYWHERE
· More Frequent Attacks · Larger Security Breaches · New Google Rankings · HTTP/2

Visual Indicators of
TRUST

· 96 of the world's 100 largest banks
· 90% of the Fortune 500
· Issuing 13 Billion certificate validation checks every day!

Protects Your Customers
· DDoS, XSS, etc. · Heartbleed · SQL Injection Attacks · Malware · New Emerging Threats · And More!

Encryption Everywhere
Encryption Everywhere is a Web Security Portfolio available as a Service for Hosting
Providers
A unified approach to security integration, automation and management. Benefits include:
· Complementary Basic DV · Basic Wildcard · Integrated Go To Market including all Tools, MDF and
dedicated support

Encryption Everywhere

Comparison

What Symantec Provides
 For hosters: High volume, low cost per certificate pricing for entry-level offering
 Full suite of certificate offerings
 Automated certificate issuance
 Encrypted by Symantec seal ­ upon request

What you get with others
 Poor validation  No revocation capability  Limits to number of certs for
IPs, domains, names  No wildcards  Only available with purchase of
other services  No upgrade path

· Cohesive, scalable security portfolio
· Most trusted seals · Best certification · Multiple layers of security · Physical + logical

· Cohesive, scalable security portfolio
· Most trusted seals · Best certification · Multiple layers of security · Physical + logical

Symantec's Partnerships----iTrusChina
 Symantec  Symantec   50
 2000Verisign2010 SymantecVerisign  SSL Symantec16 Symantec   

Symantec's Partnerships----iTrusChina

Symantec's Partnerships----iTrusChina " "




