© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Small Business, Big Data
Adopting Splunk for Small Enterprises
Andrij Demianczuk | Leader of Enterprise Monitoring ATB Financial
October 2018

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Agenda

1. Discovering data 2. Understanding data 3. Incorporating data

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Introduction
Applying Enterprise Strategies to Small Business

ATB Financial
Make banking work for people
Doing things other banks wouldn't do  Being ever loyal to our customers  Being relentlessly inventive  Being steadfastly genuine in our pursuit of Albertans' greater good

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Using banking to create happiness. Because good things happen when happiness becomes your purpose

Paradigm Technical Consulting Ltd.
A simpler, brighter IT solutions provider
Simple, elegant designs  Applications & Systems inter-operations development  Performance Analysis & Monitoring  Big Data & Operational Intelligence

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Simple designs are often the most elegant building blocks of technology

Commonalities
What do Big Enterprise and Small Business have in common? Charter
 Sustainable business model  Measurable output  Accountable to stakeholders
Problems
 Most data is uncaptured  Relationships between data points are often difficult to identify  Diverse array of workflows and streams
Goals
 Provide structure  Define clear objectives  Growth

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
"Big or small, Splunk tells the story of
your business"

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Discovering Data
Finding and leveraging everyday counters

Data Problems
A reciprocal relationship

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Most Enterprise or Business data is uncaptured

Large Enterprises suffer from dimensionality and data overload
 Sprawling implementations  Complicated workflows  Exponential complexity
Most enterprises don't have much insight into their operations

Small Businesses suffer from data sparsity
 Fewer counters & less formality  Data can be scarce or infrequent  Less standardization
Most small businesses don't understand the value of small data

Component Identification
What drives the business

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Products and
Services

Operations

Customers

 Work from the top-down · Understand the highest levels first · Pick 2 ­ 3 counters that define a
component
 Organize by key management areas · Components encapsulate
responsibilities
Understanding business components helps organize your data

Looking For Good Data
Not all data is created equal

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Know where to look · Catalog daily operations · Understand KPIs

 Understand workflows · Identify core processes · Plot the components

 Create new counters · Aggregate existing data · Metadata

Look at the data and identifiers Identify the key business

Some of the most meaningful

that are already present

workflows and what conditions data will be between the lines

they require to be successful

Getting Data In
Strategies to find good machine data
 Look for native connectors first · Splunkbase apps · File I/O · TCP Streams
 Capitalize on APIs · REST add-on · HEC / JSON
 Scripted / Modular Inputs · Printed results · Custom Apps

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
"Knowing where to look is often the
biggest step to solving a problem"

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Understanding Data
Drawing meaning from counters

Types of Data
Getting the most out of your counters

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Intrinsic data

 Encapsulated  Self-described  Tells its own story
Extrinsic data  Derived from context  Relationship based  Co-dependent

Web Logs
Social Media Accounting Services

Intrinsic

Extrinsic

Error occurrence Shopping cart contents
Active communities Fraudulent access
Asset revenue Employee cost

Bounce rate Sales / returns Repeat customers
Social permeability Topic trends / marketing
Asset decay Employee efficiency

Value of Data

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Depth of data · Volume · Granularity · Polymorphic nature

 Veracity of data · Accuracy · Conformity · Truthfulness

 Permeability of data · Inheritability · Degree of relationships · Degree of entropy

Value is established by meaning and utility

Creating Useful Dashboards
Getting the most out of your data

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 What is being measured?
· Define specific value
cases
· Is the counter
quantifiable?
 What is actionable?
· Does the data provide
meaningful information and direction?
· Is the data properly
targeted?

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
"Data is most meaningful when it's
trusted, consistent and reliable"

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Incorporating Data
Integrating the counters

Putting It All Together

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Design efficient workflows · App organization · Navigation techniques · Lineage
Consider how users would expect to use a dashboard

 Compose meaningful dashboards · Un-ambiguous · Relevant · Logical Flow

 Decide representations matter most
· Real-time vs. bucketed
perspectives
· Inline & Historical context
for reports
· User-friendly controls

Dashboards should be generalized at the top, specific on the bottom

Keep relevant data visible and hide what's not

Build a Solid Framework
Setting a valuable precedent

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Operationalization should be simple and extensible
­ Simple designs are maintainable

Bring in as much data as possible and assign value to key counters
­ Prioritize your most important data

Intelligence should be actionable, consistent and timely
­ Reliability is critical

Big Data, Big Value

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Provide value to the business · Sustainable · Intelligence should evolve · Measurable · Benchmarking statistics · Accountable · Output must be measurable
Transition from business that drives data, to data that drives business

 Provide value to the customer · Is it worth their time · Perceived value of a service · Is it worth coming back · Rate of return · Is it worth promoting · Impacts sustainment and growth
Customer satisfaction is the North Star

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
"In any business, good data has big
implications"
Source information here

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Key Takeaways
Summing it all up

1. Identify your key components, workflows
and create new counters. Know where to look for data.
2. Understand the value of your data; how
counters relate to one another.
3. Efficient, unambiguous workflows make
data accessible.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Follow our journey
Follow us at ATBalphabeta.com

Thank You
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

