© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Deutsche Bahn & Accenture Delivering IoT at Scale
Use Case Development in an Industrialized Nearshore Factory for an IoT Platform of the Future
Brian Berg Maros Mraz

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The global IoT market is one of the fastest growing digital opportunities
IOT MARKET: FACTS & FIGURES

20.4 BN
"connected things" by 2020 (Gartner, 2017)

IoT spans industries representing
62%
of gross domestic product (GDP) among G20 nations (Oxford Economics, 2014)

93%
of companies believe, that digital technologies will change their business models disruptively within the next 12 months

Tech-Giants such as Google, Microsoft, Cisco, industrial companies such as GE, Siemens or other telcos, such as Verizon, have already
invested
BNs

The IoT market will grow
27%CAGR
in the next 5 years (Markets & Markets, 2017)

82%
of companies say they are unable to identify all of the devices
connected to their network (ForeScout, 2017)

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Our customers in IoT market typically discuss common themes
SPLUNK / ACCENTURE IOT OFFERING GUIDING PRINCIPLES

Existing market buying behavior dominated by hyper focused use cases or highly customized platform solutions

Customized approach
because specific needs of customers

Majority of market segment to be addressed by flexible and scalable technology
Small initial PoC sales followed by longer customer journeys that only in the end lead to larger roll-outs

Scalable solution & delivery
to keep time and cost under control
Innovation Factory Approach
to support industrialization along the IoT Journey

NEARSHORE IOT FACTORY

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The newly developed "IoT Factory" delivers agile and at scale
EUROPEAN NEARSHORE SPLUNK IOT FACTORY

· Fully dedicated team for Splunk IoT development work with proven track record
· Highly talented and certified people · Extended resource pool of over 1100 FTE with various
areas of expertise · Industry specific knowledge and experience · Part of global (nearshore / offshore) delivery network
Industrialized agile at constant quality Distributed thus secured expertise Outcome based factory approach Competitive onshore / nearshore setup

Prague Bratislava IoT Center
Budapest Bucharest

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
We partner with Splunk and DB Cargo to capture the value of IoT

DB CARGO CASE STUDY AND CONTEXT

Situation: · 93,000 freight cars and 2,750 locomotives · Largest fleet on European continent · 10GB of daily generated sensor data · Initially limited use and transparency on IoT data

GPS Mileage

Push Weight

Temp. Dew Point

Humidity

Context: In the "amspire ­ Asset & Maintenance Digital Lab", interdisciplinary teams (60-70 experts) develop future solutions for the automation and digitization of vehicles and maintenance processes together with external partners.

Objective: · Supply innovative services to DB Cargo clients · Optimize internal processes · Get more specific fleet control and transparency
Accenture / Splunk Support: · Onshore Consulting team defining use cases · Splunk Professional Services as innovation infusion · Accenture "IoT Factory" delivering and implementing

A focus of the lab is the "Asset Intelligence Center", where an Internet of Things platform is being developed. With the "TechLOK" and "Wagon Intelligence" projects, we are enhancing the equipment used in our locomotives and freight wagons with intelligent sensors. Status data is constantly made available via the sensors and it is possible to perform detailed diagnoses on the condition of the vehicles or components. Using this data, our facilities will be maintained in a more flexible and condition-based manner in the future. The focus is on increasing availability and quality while reducing costs.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The operating model supports highly custom and scalable delivery
AGILE DELIVERY APPROACH
Nearshore Team

Lead Developer

Developer
(Splunk, Java,
Javascript) Designer (Fluid
Design, UX)

Tester, DevOps

Onshore Team

Client
Project & Coordination

Product Owner Scrum Master Consultants

Tech Lead Use Case Business Owner Architect

Splunk PS SME

Splunk PS Subject Matter Expert & Innovation

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The DB-IoT Platforms real time stream is powered by Splunk
HIGH LEVEL ARCHITECTURE IOT PLATFORM

3rd Party World

DB IoT Cloud Platform / Asset Intelligence Center

Stage 1 Adapter

Stage 2 Messaging & Routing

Stage 3 Output

AWS IoT Core Broker

Appspace

HTTP Client FTP Edge
HTTP Client

Push Pull
Push

Action Rule Action Rule

Data Mgmt. Stream
Consumer Realtime Stream
Consumer Realtime Stream

ZoD DataLake Splunk
Business App.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The IoT Factory delivered initial supporting use cases on the platform

USE CASE OVERVIEW

EXAMPLES

Wagon Data Quality ­ Monitor data quality of the IoT devices and their adherence to the contractually defined limits and accuracy

Identified and Fixed Data Inaccuracies

Wagon Shock Detector ­ Detect possible damaging shocks to a wagon at customer sites for improved claims management
Wagon Lifecycle ­ Overview of the equipment of wagons with telemetry devices and their health status
Locomotive Data Quality ­ Monitor the IoT devices installed in locomotives for their data quality and accuracy

Improved Claims Management
Asset management and
optimization
360° Quality Assurance

Locomotive Workshops ­ Monitor incoming trains for locomotive workshops to enhance repair schedule

Improved Workshop Utilization

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Wagon Shock Detector enables carrier & client to use new information
USE CASE DEEP DIVE: WAGON SHOCK DETECTOR
Description: · Detect possible damaging shocks to a
wagon along the whole journey
Potential benefits: · Improved claims management at customer
site · Process Optimization (e.g. train speed
adjustments or moving wagons between trains more carefully) · Identify areas for maintenance (e.g. damaged railways or defective buffers)
Dashboard · Displays strength of shocks, visualized via
a scale ranging from blue to red, on a map to immediately identify the critical locations

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Locomotive Workshops Case helps reducing process inefficiencies
USE CASE DEEP DIVE: LOCOMOTIVE WORKSHOPS
Description: · Monitor incoming trains for locomotive
workshops
Potential benefits: · Enhancement of repair schedule (required
service, timing etc.) · Increase of transparency in terms of
locomotive location and status · Improved workshop utilization
Dashboard · Displays exact timing the locomotives are
arriving, the required type of service, the service status etc. while providing multiple options to filter the displayed items

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The newly developed capabilities are enabling the full value of IoT
VALUE DELIVERED & ACCENTURE FOCUS AREAS

Improved Process Efficiencies Improved Trust and Better SLAs for Customer Improving the Planning Process Enabling Predictive Maintenance Increasing Data Quality and Transparency Enabling Product-to-Service Offerings

IoT Factory

Industry 4.0

Future of IoT

Splunk

Industry X.0

IoT Security

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
We are happy to further discuss your questions at our booth
MEET OUR EXPERTS

Interested in ...please contact Fabian

Brian Berg
Splunk Ecosystem Innovation Lab & IoT Expert Principal Director Accenture Strategy brian.berg@accenture.com
Maros Mraz
Engagement & Program Lead Senior Manager Accenture Digital maros.mraz@accenture.com
Fabian Stöffler
Asset & Maintenance Digitization Program Lead Vice President Asset Digitization at DB Cargo AG fabian.stoeffler@deutschebahn.com

