© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Enabling Your Mission Through Automated Alignment With NIST's Risk Management Framework
or Your Framework!
Steve Vetter | Cisco Federal Strategist and Senior Strategic Solution Executive Rutger Thomschutz | Qmulos Director of Technical Engagements
October 2018 | Orlando, Florida

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Rutger Thomschutz
Qmulos Director of Technical Engagements
 13 Years consulting  Splunking for 5 years, last 3 as Splunk PS  4th .Conf

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Steve Vetter
Cisco Federal Strategist and Senior Strategic Solution Executive
 15+ Years of IT industry strategic leadership experience  Retired Naval Intelligence Commander  .Conf Virgin

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Agenda
Proactive, Compliant Security
The FOUNDATION - Fundamental Transformative Drivers are Here!
· Explosion of Devices and Data · Dynamic Evolving Threats

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

The MEANS ­ Mission Enablement with Data and Security Frameworks
· NIST Risk Management and Cybersecurity Management Frameworks · Pragmatic Mission Accomplishment
· Not just "actionable insights", but "automated security and compliance" driven by insights · Machine learning (AI) are Game Changers for Network and Security Automation
The OUTCOME ­ Automated Framework Alignment to Assure the Mission
· Framework Alignment and Automation · Compliance Reporting and Tracking

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Foundation
Fundamental Transformative Drivers are Here!

Keys to Mission and Business Success
Technology is Changing
The unstoppable fundamentals!
· Connected devices and sensors are skyrocketing
- Consumerization of IT ­ NextGen! (and OT/IIoT/FRCS)
· Data is exploding · The "Cyber-Physical Systems" of the 4th Industrial Revolution are arriving
Of increasing importance...
· Cloud / Containers / Mobility / IoT / Big Data and Analytics / The Edge

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Security Threat Landscape
Security is Transforming

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Cybersecurity threat and potential adverse impact have never been greater
· Need (and expectation) to connect / communicate / collaborate is exploding and essential to enhance mission / business outcomes
· Increased availability and number of attack surfaces and attack vectors (cloud / IoT / edge) · Availability of automated and compromised tools, vulnerabilities and knowledge
· Shadow Brokers: Double Pulsar / Eternal Blue, Meltdown, Spectre, etc. · Rapidly evolving, dynamic nature of the threat

Creates the need for:
· Real-time visibility across the entire network and support infrastructure · And the data and applications that ride across them
· Real-time enforcement of network policies for security and performance · Ability to dynamically change the network ­ especially in response to anomalous behavior · Zero Trust Security

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Means
Mission Enablement with Data and Security Frameworks

It Takes a Team!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Data Doesn't Lie

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

But how much does it really help?

The NIST CyberSecurity Framework
Enables More Effective Management of Risk

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 What: Prioritized, flexible, repeatable, performance-based, cost-effective approach  Goal: Identify, assess and manage cyber risks  Business drivers guide cyber resources and activities to help manage risk  3 parts: Framework Core / 4 Maturity Tiers / Your Profile
· Core alignment with business requirements, risk tolerance and organizational resources  Adaptable to IT / IoT / ICS / CPS

The Core: It's FLEXIBLE......and it's NOT a Checklist!!!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Mission Enablement with Pragmatic RMF Compliance
The Means ­ from a Splunk "Leading Data Analytics Platform" Perspective
"Real-time" operational intelligence becomes "real-time" operational actions
· Splunk's real-time data insights are operationalized by Cisco's security and networking technologies and Qmulos' RMF technical compliance controls real-time reporting and streamlining capabilities
Take Splunk's capabilities to the next level
· Automation doesn't just "alert," it RESOLVES performance and security issues · Real-time actions to ensure performance, availability AND SECURITY
Can operationalize network microsegmentation and real-time response to dynamic security threats
Actionable insights still require action!

Key Networking and Security Factors

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Performance Scale Security
Performance at Scale with Security
· The Means: Automation / Machine Learning (AI) / Intent-Based Networking · The Benefits: Network Consolidation / Enhanced Security / Savings
These are game changers for mission and security!

Intent-Based Networking

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Digital Mission & Business

Network
Translation & Validation
Captures business intent, translates to policies, and check integrity
The "what" to the "how"

Mobile Security

PRIVATE
IoT MultiCloud

Activation & Awareness
Orchestrate policies & configures systems automatically Performs the "how" / Context Real time network status
Dynamic Assurance
Continuous verification, visibility - corrective / proactive actions The "how" is doing the "what"

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Journey to Intent-based Networking

THE NETWORK. INTUITIVE.

Machine Learning & AI

Intent-based Networking
Constantly Learning
Constantly Adapting
Constantly Protecting

Policy-Based Automation

Analytics & Assurance
Everything as a sensor Telemetry
Historical & Real-time

Policy Validation Predictive Self-healing

Digital-Ready Infrastructure

Business Policy Translation Segmentation

Secure foundation Programmability Virtualization

All starts with the right physical infrastructure

Scaling

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Comprehensive Network Traffic and Data Visibility
Full NetFlow is Key to Comprehensive Internal Network Visibility

Sampled = Partial
· Subset of traffic, usually less than 5%
· Gives a snapshot view into network activity
· Similar to reading every 20th page of a book

Full Netflow = All packets
· All traffic is collected
· Provides a comprehensive view into all activity on the network
· Equivalent to reading every word on every page of a book

Sampling is sufficient for network performance , but not for security

Encrypted Traffic Analytics
The Future is Already Here

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Initial Data Packet
Make the most of the unencrypted fields

Sequence of Packet Lengths and Times
Identify the content type through the size and timing of packets

Threat Intelligence Map
Who's who of the Internet's dark side

C2 message Data exfiltration
Self-Signed certificate

Key Takeaways

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Our world is undergoing fundamental (and unstoppable) transformations
· Consumerization of IT ­ NextGen · IoT / IIoT / OT · Threat · Technology advances · Data
But how to harness these drivers for business and mission success?
· What data is optimal for Splunk to enhance organizational outcomes? · What role does automation play and where?
The Potential: We can take the high ground back from adversaries

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Outcome
Automated Framework Alignment to Assure the Mission

The Outcome
It Takes a Team!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Real-World Solution
Solving the Medical Device Security Challenge

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Medical provider
Adopted the trifecta
Cisco
Automatically identify, classify and secure Firepower assets connected to the network
Dynamically change security controls based on vulnerabilities and threats

1 >
Qmulos Q-Compliance

Cisco Stealthwatch

1 > Splunk

pxGrid

Stop complex threats faster
Cisco ISE

Asset Discovery
CM-08 Information System Component Inventory
Must discover all assets on the network
· Cisco's Identity Services Engine (ISE) does this
Q-Compliance displays authorized and discovered assets

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Asset Discovery (Cont.)
CM-08(03) Information System Component Inventory Automated Unauthorized Component Detection

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Q-Compliance displays unmanaged/unauthorized assets discovered by ISE

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Monitoring Assets
IR-06 Incident Reporting
StealthWatch monitors assets/network for threats, malicious activity, incidents, etc.
· Direct integration into ISE for real-time response to anomalous / malicious activity
Q-Compliance displays any discovered incidents, attacks

Monitoring Assets (Cont.)
SI-04 Information System Monitoring
Discover incidents and attacks

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Monitoring Assets (Cont.)
SI-04(11) Information System Monitoring | Analyze Communications Traffic Anomalies
Additionally, Q-Compliance shows any anomalies detected by StealthWatch

Alerting

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

In Q-Compliance, set up an alert (e.g. AC-03) to notify the system owners on the System Actions dashboard

Use Splunk's adaptive response capabilities to quarantine a device in ISE that has a discovered incident on it

Automation

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Key Takeaways
A framework is NOT a compliance checklist!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
1. Legacy security and compliance is dead
2. Today's security threats are dynamic and
rapidly evolving
3. Security and compliance must be "real-time"
4. Automation is paramount
5. Proof of compliance is key to a successful
security journey
6. Splunk + Cisco + Qmulos have proven this
approach helps ensure mission success!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Thank You
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

