Operational Intelligence
Decoding the Code of Your Applications
Aaron Garcia ­ Capital Group Companies Nate Smalley ­ Splunk Inc.
October 2018 | Version 1.0

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Agenda
Are we in the right room?
 Who are these People?  Who is Capital Group Companies  The Journey of Application Insight
· OI Level 1 ­ Basic Search · OI Level 2 ­ Splunk App · OI Level 3 ­ IT Service Intelligence  Moving into the Future

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
NEED NEW PICTURE

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Who Are these Speakers?
Introductions

YOUR PIC

Aaron Garcia

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Technology Engineer with The Capital Group Companies
 15 Years in various support/engineering roles
 Currently focused on workload automation and operational intelligence

Nate Smalley

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 IT Operations Technologist (Reformed Security Guy)
 Former Technical Director of Security & Monitoring Tools Team ­ Apollo Group (University of Phoenix)
 Currently Splunk Sales Engineer Manager supporting the Largest Splunk Customers
 Enjoy Long walks across SNMP and Candle light dinners while fighting Operational Outages

Capital Group Companies
 Founded in 1931  One of the oldest and largest investment
management organizations in the world  Relentless focus on delivering superior,
consistent results for long-term investors using high-conviction portfolios, rigorous research and individual accountability.  Offices worldwide

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Start: Pricing Process
Operation Level 1

The Pricing Process
 Price distribution is a key responsibility and heavily regulated
 Distribution consists of multiple applications and processes
 Traditional monitoring tools were focused mainly on the hardware running the applications
 Zero visibility into the file transfers

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

The Problem With Pricing
Where we started

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Call anyone and everyone who works on the applications
 Create specific call out procedures in hopes of getting the right associates faster
 All hands on deck during the process

 Too much reliance on application developers and SMEs
 Support calls were usually chaotic since there was never clear indication where the issue might be
 Multiple callouts were often needed at times in order to find the right person

Early Prototypes Visualized Pricing

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Early prototypes were focused on if we could "see" what was happening in Pricing
 The first prototypes proved that we could successfully translate Pricing into something anyone could understand
 Rely less on specific domain knowledge and abstract the technology

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Middle: Splunk App
Operation Level 2

Transform Data Into Useful Views
Codification of Use Case
 The goal was to consolidate and translate all the Pricing Data into something easy to understand
 Service decomposition was done with each of the application teams in the pricing chain
 The app was built in Splunk Core using out of the box knowledge objects

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Diving Deep

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

The Splunk Pricing App

 Issues can often be identified within seconds of opening the app
 Identifying which application teams are needed to troubleshoot is extremely clear
 SLA trending and metrics were finally available
 Issues with file transfers could clearly be seen

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Current State: Transitioning to Intelligence
Operation Level 3

Enter Splunk IT Service Intelligence
Predictive analytics for real-time insights, simplified operations and root cause analysis
Dependency Mapping and more
 Faster delivery of value to our customers
 Creating meaningful visuals and alerting
 True correlation of application dependencies
 Elimination of alert fatigue

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Adoption Through IT Service Intelligence

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Everyone sharing a View

 Support teams and development teams can see the same thing
 Faster decisions can be made on what needs to be looked at
 One tool can be used for all aspects of troubleshooting
 Alerting can be tailored to what matters

Data Driven Operations

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Machine and application insights on one view can greatly reduce the troubleshooting time
 In the past multiple tools were needed to the deliver the complete picture
 System administrator knowledge was often needed to retrieve machine metrics

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
The Future: Moving Forward
Operation Level 3 and beyond

What Else is There?
Moving Forward
 Getting the right information to the right people faster
 Meaningful and actionable alerting  Bi-directional Integration with
ServiceNow  Service templating  Predictive Analytics

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Roadmap to More Value
NO MTTR? SAY WHAT
 Out of the Box capability to provide imminent outage detection and alerting
 Provide Analysts/App Teams with pre-emptive notification before degradation in Availability
 More Time to diagnose and get the right folks to correct an issue

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Three Takeaways
Don't leave empty handed!

1. Start by Seeing More
We began by visualizing our entire pricing process, bringing all of the data and services needed into a single view, so we could understand more.
2. Make Sure What You See Is Useful
We made our visualized pricing data easier to understand, so teams could investigate quicker and take the actions they needed quicker.
3. Leverage ML and AI To Be Proactive
We are able to ahead of some outages before they occur by using the predictive capabilities, alerting, and integrations with other tools

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Q&A
Section subtitle goes here

Thank You
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

