Our Speakers

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

v
BINA KHIMANI
Global Head of Infrastructure Segments, Partner Ecosystem, AWS

DAN MCBREEN
Director Cloud, Splunk

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Migration best practices for scaling
with Splunk Cloud
AWS Workload Migration Program
2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Splunk Cloud and AWS
Cloud best practices
2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
1. Learn how AWS can free you up to
pursue innovation and high-value business opportunities
2. Migrate under your own terms, maintain
security and compliance, and we can provide prescriptive guidance
3. AWS & Splunk have teamed up to
support your migrations to Splunk Cloud!

Selling Value of Splunk Cloud

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

1
Value Point 1: Service Excellence
2
Value Point 2: Unique Features
3
Value Point 3: Total Cost of Ownership
2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Splunk Cloud is always available. We are experts at administering Splunk. Splunk Cloud is designed to run in an emergency.
Nimble Architecture. Eliminate delays and change management process for upgrades. Secure Administration. No Rogue Changes.
Eliminate Infrastructure. Fast time to value. Splunk Cloud is "lottery-proof." Unlock the value of the full Splunk Platform.

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Insert your own screenshot here. For best results, use an image sized at 1450 x 850
2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Prescriptive approach to workload migrations

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Migration playbooks and AWS Quick Starts

Joint Investment

Ecosystem of domain expert SI
partners

To enable Splunk Enterprise Migration, AWS provides:
 Outcome-driven methodology  Professional Services and
consulting support available  Training  Service credits

2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Migration Engagement Framework
Reduce risk with a planned approach

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Design

Migrate

 Catalog assets and business requirements
 Create optimized architecture and migration plan

 Migrate Splunk Enterprise solution to Splunk Cloud
 Retire on premises infrastructure

2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Optimize
 Business unit and process conversion
 Achieve greater agility, flexibility, savings over long term

Operate
Monitor, manage, and operate Splunk Cloud!

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
" This is my 28th year in the airline industry,
working on systems and technology. Being able to onboard technology at this rate is
something that I have not seen"
Senior Director, IT Services, Spirit Airlines

Welcome Dan McBreen
Director, Splunk Cloud

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Call to Action

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Accelerate your cloud journey!
 Stop buy the AWS booth #P2 to talk to migration specialist  Contact aws-info@splunk.com to learn more about Splunk Cloud
 Download free trial of Splunk Cloud https://www.splunk.com

2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

Thank You
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Amazon Web Services
Gain scalability, reduce cost, and more

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

FOCUS
Eliminate costly technical debt and reallocate resources to focus on differentiated work

INNOVATE
Innovate faster using the leading cloud platform, and solidify your competitive advantage.

MIGRATE
Migrate at your own speed leveraging tools, programs, and partnerships to make your migration to the cloud smooth

REDUCE
Reduce risk by focusing resources dedicated to security, compliance & availability

2018, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon Confidential

