© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
AWS Security Automation and Orchestration
TTimhSeandFagoe ­uSnr. SdecaurtitiyoPanrtnoer fStrAatepgispt lication Migration and Modernization for Regulated Industry
Tim Sandage | Sr. Security Partner Strategist

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Session Overview

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Security Automation and Orchestration
· What is Secure DevOps? · What happens to our regulated customers today, in adopting DevSecOps models? · Introduction to Security Automation and Orchestration.
 Stages of Security Automation and Orchestration Adoption
· Cloud Migrator · Cloud Forward · Cloud Native
 Collaborative Social Engineering
· Review of GitHub as the collaborative hub for effective service transformation on AWS. · Review of GitHub at the core of Security Automation and Orchestration

What is DevSecOps?

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Union of software development and operations
 Migration of Agile continuous development into continuous integration, continuous delivery, and continuous compliance.
 DevSecOps Model
· No Silos ­ Puts emphasis on communication, collaboration and cohesion
between disciplines
· Best practices for change, configuration, and deployment automation · Deliver apps/services at a faster pace · High speed product updates · Everything is code

Devsecops Processes: 4 Major Phases

· Check-in source code
· Peer review new code

· Compile code · Integration tests · Deployment to

· Unit tests

with other

production

· Style checkers

systems

environments

· Code metrics · Load testing

· Continuous

· Create container · UI tests

Monitoring

images

· SecOps

Scanning

© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

DevSecOps Release Processes: Levels
© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Problem Statement ­ Why Can't we be Agile?
Security and risk management leaders continue to labor over "How" do they secure current, legacy and cloud resources consistently within their limited constraints.
While cloud services has provided streamlined ways to achieve innovation through the principles of DevSecOps and Developer SelfService, regulated customers are still under mandate to follow strict security, governance, and accreditation standards, which are delivered during the production deployment phase.
© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Developer Self-Service ­ In a Compliance Oriented World
DevOps enables the CI/CD pipeline which is the basis of automation within AWS.
The biggest challenge is breaking out of the traditional security structures and eliminating the divide between developers, operations, and security.
The CI/CD pipeline is the foundation for creating a repeatable, reliable and constantly improving process for taking software from concept to a secure, complaint production solution.
AWSome! But what actually happens in Regulated environments today?
© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Solution Overview: SAO
Develop an AWS Security Automation and Orchestration (SAO) repository for constraining, tracking, publishing continuous security configurations, integration, deployments and treatments which are certified against common security frameworks (e.g. FedRAMP, DoD CC SRG, IRS 1075,CIS, PCI, etc.)
SAO will facilitate the orientation and association of DevOps and Security practices, changes and coordination of Continuous Integration (CI), Continuous Delivery (CD) and Continuous Risk Treatment (CRT)* of an AWS customer account and/or multiple accounts.
* CRT is a process and technology approached which is designed to detect, maintain and in MOST case correct security, compliance and threats associated with an organization's solution and service deployment within their AWS account. CRT processes monitor security controls in real-time to ensure the risk and/or threat treatment (Control Intent) is working as designed or at least within an intended margin of acceptance base on guard rails, swim lanes and/or rules built into the control to allow for busines©s2o01p7e,rAamtioaznosn.Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Stages of Security Automation and Orchestration

Time

CLOUD MIGRATOR

CLOUD FORWARD

CLOUD NATIVE

© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Value

Cloud Native Continuous Compliance

Splunk Slides
© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

The Result: "AWS Trust Boundary In a Box"
1. Templates, Scripts, Functions and Recipes for securely deploying regulated workloads "Type Accreditation" (Pre-Audited), for all stages of Cloud Service adoption, (Migrator, Forward, Native)
2. Defined operational security and compliance tolerances scripts, functions and treatments (e.g. Guard Rails) for constrained secure operations across the DevOPS CI/CD and CRT through the use of Governance as Code (GoC) practices
3. Deployable Continuous Risk Treatments (CRT) resources (e.g. AWS & Partners solutions)
© 2017, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its Affiliates. All rights reserved.

Thank You!
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

