SESSION ID: LAW-W02
Privacy, Policymakers, and the TECH Needed to Protect People

MODERATOR: Lydia F de la Torre
Of Counsel Squire Patton Boggs @DLTsays / https://medium.com/golden-data

PANELISTS:

Rick Arney
Co-author of CCPA Californians For Consumer Privacy @caprivacyorg

Dimitri Sirota
CEO and Co-Founder BigID @dimitrisirota

#RSAC

#RSAC
Protecting the people...
"DESIGNED TO SERVE MANKIND" (RECITAL 4)
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC 2

#RSAC
What is the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)?
Is CCPA a "copycat" of GDPR?
3

#RSAC
Reasonable security
CAL CIV. CODE SEC. 1798.150 / PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION / $100-$750 "PER CONSUMER PER INCIDENT"
Any consumer whose nonencrypted and nonredacted personal information [as defined] is subject to an unauthorized access and exfiltration, theft, or disclosure as a result of the business's violation of the duty to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the information to protect the personal information may institute a civil action.."
4

#RSAC
Takeaway

For California purposes encrypt/redact the following PI:
Cal. Civ. Code Sec. 1798.150 (1) (Priv. Right of Action under CCPA) 1798.81.5(d)(1)(A) and 1798.81.5(d)(2)&(3) (Def. of PI for purposes of CCPA priv. right of action)
5

Social security numbers & other gov. issued unique identification number (e.g. DL number, California ID, tax ID, passport number, military ID.) Account number or credit or debit card number, in combination with any required security code, access code, or password that would permit access to an individual's financial account. (iv) Medical information (meaning any individually identifiable information, in electronic or physical form, regarding the individual's medical history or medical treatment or diagnosis by a health care professional.) (v) Health insurance information (an individual's insurance policy number or subscriber identification number, any unique identifier used by a health insurer to identify the individual, or any information in an individual's application and claims history, including any appeals records.) (vi) Unique biometric data generated from measurements or technical analysis of human body characteristics (e.g. fingerprint, retina, or iris image, used to authenticate a specific individual (potentially including physical or digital photograph IF used or stored for facial recognition purposes)

#RSAC
What does it take to comply?
The path ahead...
 The human element  The "will and the way"  The technology
6

