SESSION ID: PRV-T08
It's All About the States: Navigating the Privacy Thicket

Behnam Dayanim
Partner, Global Chair of Privacy & Cybersecurity Practice Paul Hastings LLP

#RSAC

#RSAC
Agenda
History of state legislation on privacy and security Background, provisions and current status of CCPA Other states' new privacy efforts Federal enforcement and legislative responses What to expect next? What to do next?
2

#RSAC
Privacy And Security
A promise of privacy is meaningless without security. Privacy: Deciding ownership, use and disclosure of personal information ­ A public policy question ­ societal, business, political ­ As a result, more "law dependent"
Security: Protecting information from unauthorized or unwanted access or disclosure ­ An implementation issue ­ technical, administrative, "cultural"
3

#RSAC
Early efforts in privacy
Focused on credit reporting agencies, largely (although not entirely) preempted CalFIPA (2004) and Vermont Financial Privacy Act (2001) California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (CMIA) (2012) A few states enacted certain types of online privacy acts, requiring privacy notices, tracking disclosures and the like Sector-specific or narrowly targeted
4

#RSAC
Security Laws ­ first comprehensive safeguard req'ts
MA 201
­ WISP Required. Massachusetts law (namely, 201 C.M.R. 17 et seq. ("MA 201")) requires covered organizations to maintain a comprehensive written information security program ("WISP").
WISP records containing personal information ("PI") about MA residents.
­ Risk-Based Approach. MA 201 adopts a risk-based approach to info security, meaning that the WISP can take into account the business' "size, scope and type."
­ 12 implementation specifications and 8 specific control requirements
5

#RSAC
New York DFS Cybersecurity Rule
Scope. Applies to banks, insurers and other financial services institutions (MTLs) subject to its jurisdiction. Cybersecurity Program. Establish a program designed to ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems. Written Policies. Adopt written policies and procedures to protect information systems and nonpublic information. ­ Board of Directors must review; senior officer must sign off. CISO. Designate a qualified individual to serve as Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). ­ Must submit report to board, at least biannually, on policies' effectiveness. Pen Testing/Vulnerability Assessments. Continuous monitoring or annual testing/assessments. Vendors. Design policies and procedures to ensure security of systems and non-public information accessible to third-party service providers. ­ Requires (i) vendors meet "minimum cybersecurity practices" and (ii) periodic assessment, at least
annually.
6

#RSAC
State Data Breach Notification Laws
2002
Eighteen years ago...
No Legislation Enacted Legislation Enacted
7

#RSAC
State Data Breach Notification Laws
2020
Today...
Legislation Enacted
8

9
© 2019, Paul Hastings LLP. All rights reserved.

#RSAC
CCPA, A History: Introduction

The CCPA exists largely due to the efforts of one man--Alastair Mactaggart, a wealthy California real estate investor who started worrying about data privacy after talking with an engineer from Google.
10

· Mactaggart spent nearly $3.5 million to place an initiative on California's November 2018 ballot to enhance privacy rights in California.

#RSAC
CCPA, A History: CCPA Adopted
In California, a ballot initiative cannot be amended by the legislature.
This brought industry to the table to fast-track a legislative alternative to the ballot initiative. After only a few weeks of negotiations, the CCPA was adopted.
11

CCPA History
Ballot Measure Proposed
Oct. 12, 2017
CCPA Adopted June 28, 2018

CCPA Amended Sept. 23, 2018
12

CCPA Effective Date Jan. 1, 2020

#RSAC

CCPA Overview

Data Subject Rights
· Notice to Data Subjects · Opt-Out of Sale of Information · Receive Services on Equal Terms · Breach Notification · Data Portability · Deletion · Access

Data Subject Rights

Enforcement · Attorney General to Adopt Final Regulations by July 1, 2020 · Private Right of Action for Data Breach · Civil Penalties: $2,500-$7,500 Per Violation
Enforcement

Consent/Transparency
· Opt-Out Regime · Updated Privacy Policies · 12 Month Opt-In Limitation · "Do Not Sell My Personal Info" · Opt-In for Sale of Personal
Information Under Age 16

Consent & Transparency

New Processes

13

New Processes
· Verification for Access, Deletion, or Portability Requests
· Response to Data Access, Deletion, and Portability Requests within 45 Days
· Determine age of CA Resident · Reasonable Security

#RSAC

#RSAC
What are the potential fines?
California AG
­ California AG can bring civil penalties of $2,500-$7,500 depending on nature of violation (e.g., intentional or not) and can also bring injunctive relief (i.e., can order entities to stop certain practices).
­ Not until July 2020.
Individual Lawsuits
­ However, private right of action (e.g., lawsuits brought by, or on behalf of, individuals) for data breaches began on January 1, 2020.
­ The potential liability can be extraordinary--companies liable for damages between $100­$750 per consumer per incident or actual damages, whichever is greater. Consumers don't need to show actual harm!
14

#RSAC
A US GDPR?
Some similarities, but important differences. No express consent requirement and opt-out from "sale" (disclosure) only. Narrower rights of access and deletion. Much narrower range of potential penalties.
15

CCPA Core Requirements

Security
Data Transfers Service Providers
Personal Data Compliance Timing Request Channel
Disclosures

GDPR Core Requirements

California Consumer Privacy Act Core Requirements

Appropriate Data Security to Safeguard Information Articles 5(1)(f), 32; CCPA Sec. 1798.150(a)(1)

Breach Notification GDPR Articles 33, 34; CCPA Sec. 1798.112 (no new notification requirements, but allows statutory damages for breach violations)

Adequacy measures required for transfers outside EEA Articles 44-50

Contractual Requirements in Service Provider Agreements Articles 23, 28

Information Relating to an Identified or Identifiable Person Articles 1, 4

Expanded Definition of Personal Information CCPA Sec. 1798.140(o)

24 months (after 4 years of legislative negotiations)

18 months (after 7 days of legislative activity)

Appropriate Disclosures to Data Subjects Articles 12-14

Toll-Free Number Required CCPA Sec. 1798.130(a)(1)
Mandated Specific Disclosures CCPA Sec. 1798.130

16

#RSAC

INCREASED BURDENS UNDER CCPA

#RSAC

· While GDPR and CCPA have many similarities and both laws require companies to adopt comprehensive data protection programs, the CCPA will impose additional burdens on companies beyond what may have been done for GDPR compliance.

CCPA is broader in scope

GDPR
The GDPR regulates data that is traditionally thought of as "personal data"

CCPA
The CCPA regulates more information, including data related to households and devices, which will, in turn, impact systems and data sets unaffected by GDPR

CCPA is Still a Moving Target

GDPR was negotiated for several years and went through multiple public iterations

CCPA was drafted and passed quickly, which may require amendments and shifting requirements

CCPA is Unprecedented in the US

The General Data Protection Directive (GDPR's predecessor) was in place for over 22 years

No comprehensive rights-based data protection framework has previously been implemented in the United States

17

INCREASED BURDENS UNDER CCPA

#RSAC

· While GDPR and CCPA have many similarities and both laws require companies to adopt comprehensive data protection programs, the CCPA will impose additional burdens on companies beyond what may have been done for GDPR compliance.

CCPA has Increased Litigation Risk

GDPR
GDPR provides a private right of action and the right to enter into group litigation; however, these are not common in the EU

CCPA
Litigation risk under the CCPA's private right of action is high, particularly given the highly developed class action system present in the United States

CCPA has Less Flexible Requirements

Under GDPR, companies have some flexibility in how companies must provide notice and communications with customers

CCPA Has Additional Consumer Rights and Requirements

GDPR establishes numerous rights (access, correction, deletion, portability, restriction of processing) with broad exceptions

18

The CCPA requires companies to use certain communications channels (e.g. toll free numbers), as well as very specific disclosure requirements
The CCPA establishes a right for consumers to request deletion of any personal information about the consumer, also with broad exceptions, but with a specific mechanism to opt out of the sale of personal data

#RSAC
Important Exemptions and Limitations
Retention. Adds the following language in italics: "This title shall not be construed to require a business to collect personal information that it would not otherwise collect in the ordinary course of its business, retain personal information for longer than it would otherwise retain such information in the ordinary course of its business, or reidentify or otherwise link information that is not maintained in a manner that would be considered personal information." B2B Communications (One-Year Moratorium). Added a one-year moratorium on CCPA obligations for businesses that process personal information of individuals acting in their capacity as an employee (or owner, director, officer, or contractor) of another entity, provided such processing is related to (i) providing or receiving a product or service to/from such entity or (ii) due diligence of such entity. However, the private right of action for data breaches, right to opt-out of "sales," and right against nondiscrimination still apply. This exemption will expire on January 1, 2021.
19

#RSAC
Important Exemptions and Limitations, cont'd
Exemption for three categories of employment-related "personal information" until January 1, 2021:
­ information that is collected from individuals in the course of a job application or from employees in the course of employment;
­ information that is collected and used solely within the context of having an emergency contact on file; and
­ information that is collected and used solely within the context of administering employment-related benefits.
However, the notice provision and the private right of action for breach provision still apply.
20

#RSAC
Areas of Tension or Uncertainty
Scope of "Sale" "Publicly available information" (which is not considered "personal information") ­ "information that is lawfully made available from federal, state, or local government records" Non-discrimination. A business may charge a consumer a different amount or provide a different level or quality of goods or services "if that difference is reasonably related to the value provided to the business by the consumer's data" (rather than the value provided to the consumer) How to treat non-Californians?
21

US State and Federal Efforts to Strengthen Privacy Rules

State

Federal

Legislation has been

introduced or enacted in at

least 15 US states :

Hawaii

New Jersey

Dec. 18, 2019
House Energy & Commerce Committee staff circulate a draft bipartisan privacy bill.

Illinois

New York

Nov. 26, 2019

Maine Maryland

Nevada North Dakota

Consumer Online Privacy Rights Act introduced in Senate

Massachusetts Nebraska
New Hampshire

Rhode Island Texas Virginia

April 10, 2019
BROWSER Act introduced in Senate

New Mexico

Washington

Jan. 15-16, 2019

Apple CEO Tim Cook and GAO both recommend "comprehensive federal privacy legislation." 22

#RSAC

But first . . .

#RSAC
Again?

#RSAC
CCPA 2.0
If enough signatures are received, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (the "CPRA") will appear on the Nov. 2020 ballot initiative.
Would go into effect January 1, 2023
New right to opt-out of "sharing"
­ "Sharing" is a disclosure even without consideration, and expressly including for behavioral advertising.
­ Limited exception for targeting using only first-party data of website with which the consumer is "intentionally interacting."
Establishment of "California Privacy Protection Agency": Tasked with implementing and enforcing the CPRA

#RSAC
CCPA 2.0 cont'd
New or modified links on homepage:
­ "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information": Allows opt-out of both (i) "sales" and (ii) any "sharing" of personal information.
­ "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Information": Allows opt-out of use of "sensitive personal information" except for defined business purposes.
One "clearly labeled" link allowed if it allows same opt-out functionality (unknown what it needs to be called)

#RSAC
Nevada ("mini-CCPA")
In May 2019, law amended to require online services to post privacy notices with right of opt-out from "sale"
­ "Sale" means transfer for money of covered information to a person for resale/re-transfer (narrower than CCPA)
­ "Covered information" also is narrower than CCPA
Applies to anyone targeting NV consumers (in traditional sense) Excludes entities covered by GLBA or HIPAA No rights of access, deletion, portability, non-discrimination No private right of action
26

Maine

#RSAC

Act to Protect Consumer Online Personal Information Reaction to congressional reversal of Obama-era FCC rule Broadband service provider cannot use or disclose customer PI absent express consent ­ Standard exceptions (advertise own products, payment, fraud, etc.) ­ Covers "information from a customer's use of broadband Internet access
service, including but not limited to. . ." browsing and app usage, precise geolocation, financial, health, children, device ID, etc. Must implement "reasonable" security measures Cannot condition or disadvantage service based on refusal to consent Only applies to BSPs operating within the state In some respects broader than longstanding MN and NV laws governing ISPs ISPs have filed suit, attacking constitutionality of the statute
27

#RSAC
New York
Back to security paradigm with SHIELD Act Takes effect March 2020 Mandates certain security measures (similar to MA) Expands definition of "private information" (consistent with some other states) Expands notice obligation to include "access" (not just "acquisition")
28

#RSAC
CCPA/GDPR "Copycat" Bills
"Washington Privacy Act" (SB 6281):
­ Right to opt-out of sales, profiling and targeted advertising ­ Imports "controller" and "processor" definitions from the GDPR ­ Enforcement by attorney general only
New Jersey (SB 269)
­ Requires disclosure of legal basis for each processing activity
Doesn't define or otherwise elaborate on what a "legal basis" is
­ Requires data retention period ­ Information security program must meet standard imposed by (i) applicable
federal law or (ii) industry standards.

#RSAC
New York
New York Privacy Act (SB 5642)
­ Similar to CCPA but more far-reaching in some respects ­ Creates "data fiduciary" obligations that supersede duties to owners or
shareholders ­ No processing of personal data without opt-in consent
"Consent" definition imported from GDPR
­ Imports "controller" and "processor" definitions from GDPR ­ Private right of action ­ No location, size or revenue exceptions for those covered
30

#RSAC
Illinois (a mini-CCPA)
Data Transparency and Privacy Act ­ not yet enacted
Similar to CCPA, although somewhat narrower
Excludes employment context
Applies only to a "private entity" that owns a website or application that either buys, receives sells or shares for a commercial purpose the information of more than 50,000 consumers or derives 50% or more of its annual revenues from selling personal information
More limited transparency/disclosure obligation
Narrower definition of sale: "selling, renting, or licensing of a consumer's personal information by an operator to a third party in direct exchange for monetary consideration, whereby, as a result of such transaction, the third party may use the personal information for its own commercial purposes."
Blanket carve-out for entities regulated by GLBA and HIPAA (but not FCRA)

#RSAC
CCPA/GDPR "Copycat" Bills
Other "copycat" bills:
­ Nebraska (LB 746) ­ New Hampshire (HB 1680-FN) ­ Virginia (HB 473)
Other bills more limited in scope also introduced to state legislatures
All bills are relatively early in committee process
­ Washington Privacy Act likely furthest along

#RSAC
Federal Debate and Action
BROWSER Act, introduced in Senate with bipartisan sponsorship
­ Applies to "broadband internet access services" and "edge services" ­ Requires "clear and conspicuous" notice of privacy policy (prescribes
requirements) ­ Opt-in for use or disclosure of "sensitive" information
includes financial, health, children under 13, SSN, precise geolocation, browsing history/app usage and content of communications
­ Opt-out for other information ­ No forced waiver ­ FTC enforces; preempts state law
33

#RSAC
Federal Debate and Action
Consumer Online Privacy Act
­ Democratic sponsors ­ Broad definition of PI ­ Preemption of conflicting state laws but not those with greater protection ­ Rights of opt-out for transfer, access, deletion, correction and portability;
may not waive those rights ­ Obligation of data minimization and express consent for "sensitive" data
(including intimate images and geolocation information) ­ Requires appointment of privacy officer and privacy/risk assessments ­ Non-discrimination limitations on use of data
34

#RSAC
Federal Debate and Action
COPRA, cont'd
­ "reasonable" security practices, including vulnerability assessments, secure data retention and disposal, and employee training
­ "Large" data collectors require CEO certification
5M data subjects/100K "sensitive" data
­ New privacy/security-focused bureau within FTC ­ FTC and state attorneys general can enforce ­ Private right of action (damages from $100 to $1K per violation per day) ­ Prohibits pre-dispute arbitration agreements ­ Excludes "small" businesses from its scope
Annual revenue of $25M or less Process PI of fewer than 100K data subjects and Derives less than 50% of revenue from transferring PI to others
35

#RSAC
Federal Debate and Action
Republican alternative (Sen. Wicker (R-MS))
­ Similar to COPRA but narrower ­ No explicit non-discrimination provisions. ­ Privacy impact assessments only required of "large" data holders ­ Preempts state laws "related to the data privacy or security and associated
activities of covered entities." ­ Does not preclude arbitration and silent on private right of action. ­ Includes an interesting "constitutional avoidance" provision. ­ Affirmative consent for transfer of minor's data; if under 16, parental
consent required.
36

#RSAC
NIST Privacy Framework
Attempt to systematize how companies think about privacy
­ Similar approach to Cybersecurity Framework
Core
­ Activities and outcomes that enable dialogue about managing privacy risk
Profiles
­ Specific functions, categories and specifications that manage risk
Implementation Tiers
­ Support communication regarding whether sufficient mechanisms in place
Not binding; faces significant challenges

#RSAC
In The Meantime, How to Comply?
Federal deliverance is not coming (soon). CCPA, CCPA, CCPA Risk-based approach to advertising and other forms of "sale" Decide whether and to what extent to extend CCPA rights to others
­ Full rights ­ No rights ­ "Directionally similar" rights
38

Steps to Compliance

Know Your Data
· Inventory your data ­ know what personal information you collect and why
· Map your data ­ know how information is collected, where it is stored, who has access to it, where (and to whom) it is transferred and how long you keep it

Know Your 3rd Parties
· Know what 3rd parties have access to your data ­ create an inventory of all 3rd parties to which you may transfer data and why
· Execute contracts ­ make sure all of your 3rd party contracts include data protection language and are clear about how 3rd parties must assist with compliance

#RSAC

Processes and Communication
· Review your existing compliance measures ­ are GDPR processes adaptable? How deal with rights to access and deletion? Opt out from "sale"?
· Communicate clearly ­ make sure your privacy notices are upto-date and you provide at least 2 methods for consumers to contact you with requests or questions
· Review Data Retention Schedules
· Raise Internal Awareness

Be Aware of Shifting Landscape
· Watch for regulatory and legislative development­ this is a moving target
· Watch for industry interpretations ­ many industries are creating guidelines for CCPA compliance; watch for those to understand how others in your industry are interpreting the law and future laws

39

#RSAC
Thank you!
Behnam Dayanim bdayanim@paulhastings.com 1.202.551.1737 @bdayanim

