SESSION ID: PDAC-W09
Nanotechnology, Behavior & Supply Chains: Managing Risk at a Platform Level

Edna Conway
VP/GM Global Security, Risk & Compliance Cloud Supply Chain Microsoft @Edna_Conway

Ophir Gaathon, PhD
CEO/Co-Founder DUST Identity @DUSTIdentity

#RSAC

#RSAC
Platform: plat·form /platfôrm/
A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other applications, processes or technologies are developed.

#RSAC
Managing Risk through the Platform Revolution
3

Platforms are Everywhere

Health Care

Logistics

#RSAC
Personal Transportation

Energy

Manufacturing

Smart Communities

Managing Risk Through the Platform Revolution

#RSAC

Lawmakers/Regulators
Cloud Providers

Employees/Consultants

5

#RSAC
Unaccounted for Risk
Indicia of Trust Closing Trust Gaps
6

#RSAC
Cloud is a Foundation for the Platform Revolution

PaaS DaaS

CaaS

XaaS STaaS
DbaaS DRaaS NaaS

HaaS

IaaS SaaS ITaaS
SECaaS MaaS

Accountability Demands Verification

#RSAC

Check & Verify

Technology & Operations
8

Accountability & Integrity

Accountability Requires Visibility

#RSAC

9

#RSAC
How Many Cows Are In a Burger?
10

#RSAC
How Many Sources Are In Your Hardware?
11

#RSAC
What is Lurking In the Shadows?
12

#RSAC
TRUST
13

#RSAC
TRUST YOU CAN'T WHAT YOU CAN'T PETER DRUCKER
14

End-to-End Value Chain Security

S U P P LY

DELIVERY

SERVICE

Information Layer Behavioral Layer Logical Layer Physical Layer Technical Layer

Security Tainted Solutions Counterfeited Parts
Quality Noncompliant Products Nonconforming Parts

SAFETY

REVENUE 15

UPTIME

#RSAC

#RSAC
Can Trust Scale?
CLASSIFIED
EMBEDDED ID ENCRYPTED RFID DNA
TAGGANTS SECURITY INK
RFID HOLOGRAMS BARCODE/QR PAPER
SCALE SCALE

SECURITY

#RSAC

Building
TRUST

Human Accountability Identity of Things
17

#RSAC
inWthhaetFwuitlul rIdeentity Look Like in the Future?
 Single item serialization  Down to component level  Cradle to grave  Secure by design
18

#RSAC
Achieve Accountability
Verifiable / Auditable Immutable supply chain data Incentivize positive behavior Create human-centric policies
19

#RSAC
TRUST = the RIGHT Security @RIGHT Place @RIGHT Time

TRUST · End-to-end multi-tier unifying architecture
· Address needs & constraints of different stakeholders in the value chain

Package Product

· Empower every node in the product

Assembly

lifecycle ecosystem

· Evolving & dynamic rollout

Component

20

#RSAC
Take the Stakeholders' Perspective

SUPPLIER
Demonstrate Quality & Compliance
Distribution & Service Network Monitoring
Downstream Product Tracking

BUYER Manage Quality &
Compliance Efficient Sourcing
Qualification Upstream Component
Validation
21

#RSAC
Third Party Threats & Threat Impacts

Threats Manipulation Espionage Disruption

Threat Impacts Tainted HW Counterfeit IP Misuse Information Security Breach

#RSAC
An Adaptable Security Architecture

Personnel Security Third-Tier Partner Security Security Engineering & Architecture Physical & Environmental Security Security Incident Management

Security Governance

Security in Manufacturing & Operations Security in Service Management Security in Logistics & Storage Information Protection Asset Management

#RSAC
An Architectural Layered Approach
Information Security Behavioral Security Technical Security Physical Security Logical Security

#RSAC
Steps to Manage Risk at the Platform Level
Apply what you have learned:
Identify and list the security assumptions about your
platforms
Define the security requirements for your assets Seek a robust thread of trust across your platforms' value
chains
Work together with your 3rd party partners to deploy effective solutions to ensure that verifiable TRUST is achieved
25

#RSAC
Transparency and Trust

Thank you.

#RSAC
@Edna_Conway @DUSTIdentity

#RSAC
The platform revolution triggered a tectonic shift in global supply chains. The proliferation of Service Platforms has raised a new specter of unaccounted risk: the third-party risk. Exactly who and what are in the value chains of our XAAService providers? The answer is often opaque. Recognized designer of architectures delivering value chain security and resilience, Edna Conway, CSO, Global Value Chain at Cisco, and disruptive innovator Ophir Gaathon, Ph.D, CEO, DUST Identity, Inc. join forces as co-presenters. Providing perspectives from the vantage point of an ICT industry leader with deep experience in developing and deploying third-party security, Conway will reflect on proven methodologies aimed at closing the trust gap by making visible the often "unaccounted risk." Dr. Gaathon will discuss emerging capabilities, nanotechnology and strategies to effectively tackle the security of the global supply chains upon which our new digital platform economy relies through the lens of a start-up at the bleeding edge. The two will discuss how collaborative, layered approaches to security, empowered by new tools impact the positive and negative human behavior within the community that comprises this complex global trust gaps across our expanding third-party network? What foundational elements are essential for successful Value Chain Architectures? Can we, working together, raise the bar on security throughout each and every value chain member ­ and is the true answer to focus on impacting behavioral security? After all, the problem with security is not just complexity, but the people within our ecosystem. These presenters will posit that the solution lies in exactly the same place ­ with our people. They will debate if and how new tools can promote behavioral change while simultaneously driving the key ingredients essential to trust: accountability, transparency, and verifiable integrity.
Key Takeaways for Attendees:
1. Understand how the proliferation of Service Platforms has created third-party risk. 2. Learn the foundational elements that are essential for successful Value Chain Architectures. 3. Explore how new tools and methodologies can help close the trust gap in third-party ecosystems.

