SESSION ID: PNG-W11
Enemies at the Gate: Protecting American Democracy in 2020

MODERATOR:
Theresa Payton
CEO and President Fortalice Solutions @TrackerPayton

PANELISTS:
Geoff Hale
CISA Election Security Initiative DHS CISA
Trevor Timmons
Chief Information Officer Colorado Secretary of State's Office @TTimmonsCO

Jennifer Morrell
Former Election Official and Partner Elections Group @VotingGeek
#RSAC

#RSAC
Election Security: What Keeps You Up At Night?

#RSAC
DHS CISA Election Security Accomplishments

#RSAC
4

#RSAC
5

#RSAC
6

#RSAC
7

#RSAC
Election Security Notable Quotables

#RSAC
"We're exploring all possible ways that we can support state and local election officials while also ensuring that Americans across the
country can confidently cast their votes."
DHS CISA Director Chris Krebs

#RSAC
"The American electorate deserves a modern, voter-centric election system that runs efficiently and inspires trust
in electoral outcomes."

#RSAC
"As election officials and voters, we need to be vigilant in the face of true threats to
our elections. It's not hypothetical, it's not an abstract risk, it is real. We need to be
vigilant and take the threats seriously."
Trevor Timmons Colorado Department of State

#RSAC
""AWs eeledcotino'nt oowffinciaalnsd aonpdevroatteersthweesnyseteedmtso. bOeuvrigjoilbanist tion thheelpface otfhtermuettohrinecartes atoseouthreir esleecctuiorintys.pIto'sstnuoret and hatffahoynpecraeoierbitgrshoentefrstaatihlicicnertaednrla,cisitetks',sbinintotoithshte rdeoalm. Weseticn.e"ed to be vigilant and take the threats seriouslyG."eoff Hale
DHS, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
-- Trevor Timmons, CIO Colorado Department of State

#RSAC
"The table for this discussion needs
to be large. We need researchers,
technologists, policy experts, and statisticians, but most importantly we need election officials who
understand the complexity of running a successful election."
Jennifer Morrell Democracy Fund Election Validation Project

"People point at the potential vulnerabilities in technology, but the vulnerabilities aren't just in the technology. They also exist in the processes supporting the technology."
Theresa Payton Fortalice Solutions

#RSAC
Q & A

#RSAC
State, Local, and Private Sector Partners
After this panel, you should:
­ Visit CISA.gov and follow CISA on Twitter (@CISAgov) to learn more about the #Protect2020 campaign.
In the months leading up to the 2020 Election, you should:
­ Join the Elections Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center (EI-ISAC).
­ Review the DHS CISA Elections Cyber Tabletop Exercise Package.
16

#RSAC

Disinformation Stops With You

Visit CISA.gov for

more about building

Recognize the Risk
­ Understand how foreign actors try to affect behavior.
Question the Source

resilience to foreign Interference in our
elections.

­ Check who produced the content and question their intent.

Investigate the Issue
­ Search for other reliable sources before sharing.

Think Before You Link
­ Ask yourself why you're sharing ­ and let your emotions cool.

Talk to Your Circle
­ Talk with your social circle about the risks of spreading disinformation.

17

