SESSION ID: LAW-W0
Pre-Crime Detection of Active Shooters using Predictive Policing Systems

Jeffrey J. Blatt
X Ventures www.xventures.com Twitter: @techlawexpert

#RSAC

#RSAC
A little more about me...
­ Pioneer Silicon Valley Technology Lawyer (e.g. Apple, Intel, Broadcom) ­ Background in Engineering, Law, Law Enforcement ­ Experienced California law enforcement officer/Palantir trained/ FBI and
California Dept of Justice certifications in cyber investigation and to participate in lawful electronic interception/surveillance ­ Frequent speaker & author on data privacy, encryption, digital surveillance, lawful government access to data in criminal investigations and the legal, social and public safety effects of technology driven policing ­ Accused of Being a Data Privacy Realist
(former Data Privacy Evangelist)
2

#RSAC
Our Objectives In This Session
Explore the challenges of identifying Active Shooters before they commit an active shooting
Understand Behavior Threat Assessment factors to identify potential active shooters (Pre-Crime) for human intervention to prevent an active shooting event
Understand the concept of "All Source Data Collection" (aka Total Data Collection) and a Deterministic Universe Model to predict future behavior
Explore the current state of Predictive Policing Systems (Intelligence Led Policing initiatives) in the U.S.
3

#RSAC
Our Objectives In This Session (con't)
Explore the conceptual possibility of ultimate end point evolutions of Machine Learning (ML) driven Predictive Policing Systems using All Source Data Collection to scan for active shooter Behavior Threat Assessment factors
Discuss the privacy and positive/negative social utility implications of deploying an All Source Data AI Driven Predictive Policing System to detect likely active shooters before an attack takes place
Hear your thoughts regarding the desirability of deploying an All Source, AI driven, predictive policing systems to detect likely active shooters for early (human) intervention/evaluation
4

#RSAC
5

#RSAC
ACTIVE SHOOTER ATTRIBUTES

#RSAC
What Does an Active Shooter Look like?
CAN YOU IDENTIFY THE ACTIVE SHOOTER?
7

#RSAC
THERE IS NO 'PROFILE' OF AN ACTIVE SHOOTER EVERYONE IN THE PREVIOUS SLIDE IS/WAS AN ACTIVE
SHOOTER*
* courtesy of www.smithstrategics.com

#RSAC
U.S. Secret Service National Threat Assessment Center

PUBLISHED
JULY 2019
United States Secret Service NATIONAL THREAT ASSESSMENT CENTER
MASS ATTACKS IN PUBLIC SPACES - 2018
U.S. Department of Homeland Security

By the Numbers
50
incidents in 21 states

943
casualties (excluding the
shooters) 221 killed; 722
wounded.

13
law enforcement officers killed

2014/2015: 40 incidents in 26 states
20
law enforcement officers wounded

2014/2015: 231 casualties (excluding the shooters): 92 killed and 139 wounded.
20
met "mass killing definition

2014/2015: 4 law enforcement officers killed
14
incidents ended with the exchange of gunfire between the shooters and law enforcement

2014/2015: 10 law enforcement officers wounded
50
shooters -- all male

2014/2015: 14 incidents incidents ended 2014/2015: 20 met imass killingw definition with the exchange of gunfire between the
shooters and law enforcement

3 13

shooters wore body armor

shooters committed suicide

2014/2015: 42 shooters. 39 male; 3 female.
11
shooters killed by police

2014/2015: 2 shooters wore body armor 2014/2015: 16 shooters committed suicide.

8
shooters stopped by citizens

18
shooters apprehended by police

2014/2015: 14 killed by police

2014/2015: 6 stopped by citizens.

2014/2015: 12 apprehended by police.

2

#RSAC
There is NO `Profile' of an `Active Shooter' -
Men and Women (majority have been men) Different ethnicities (across the spectrum) Different ages (youngest 11 -> oldest 88) Different weapons (usually handguns (56%), (43%) rifles/shotguns Focus Must be on Behavior To Identify Potential Active Shooters "Behavioral threat assessment" is a set of investigative and operational techniques that can be used to ...identify, assess and manage the risks of targeted violence and its potential perpetrators"...Fein, R., Vossekuil, B. & Holden, G. (1995) Threat Assessment: An Approach to PreventTargeted Violence
10

Behavioral Threat Assessments

#RSAC

"Pathway to Violence"

Proactive approach to prevent targeted violence focusing on pre-crime behavior

Examples of Behavioral Threat Indicators:

Pathway warning behaviors -> behavior that is part of the research, planning or implementation of an attack

Fixation warning behaviors -> any behavior that indicates an increasingly pathological preoccupation with a specific cause or person
11

#RSAC
Examples of Behavioral Threat Indicators (Con't)
Identification Warning Behavior
­ Desire to be a `pseudo commando' ­ Close association with weapons/law
enforcement/military ­ Identify oneself as an agent to advance a cause or
belief ­ Identification with previous attackers
Novel Aggression Warning Behavior
­ Act of violence that is unrelated to any targeted violence pathway warning
Last Resort Warning Behavior
­ Seems depressed no `spark' with friends and family
12

#RSAC
Examples of Behavioral Threat Indicators (con't)
Communicated Threat Warning Behavior
­ Subject directly threatens target (may be on social media)
Leakage Warning Behavior
­ Communicating an intent to commit a violent act to a third party (may be in joking way and/or on social media)
13

#RSAC
Threat Indicators as Data Inputs
Behavioral Threat Indicators manifest themselves as data:
­ Social Media posts ­ Electronic communications (email/text messages) ­ Web search histories ­ Medical history (including psychological) ­ Financial transactions (e.g. purchase of firearms) ­ School behavior records ­ Friends/family (may be reflected on social media) ­ Criminal justice history/police contacts ­ Phone calls ­ Public and private digital surveillance systems ­ Many other sources of data related to threat indicators
14

#RSAC
Could a data processing system potentially identify an active shooter
before the crime takes place?

Concept: The Deterministic Model of the Universe in a #RSAC Nutshell
Premise: With enough data the actions of the universe and all things it contains can be predicted Actions appear random because we do not have enough data to fully understand and model the particular system IF we knew everything about everything, we can predict events/outcomes, future movements. Example: Newtonian Physics Exception: Quantum Physics
16

Let's use `determinism' as a basis for predicting likely #RSAC times and places of future criminal activity...
17

#RSAC
Current Generation Predictive Policing Tests
18

So...what if we created a Predictive Policing System

#RSAC

Focused on Active Shooter Behavior Threat Indicators?

All Source Data Collection ­ provide the system with access to all
data sources (e.g. social media, medical HIPAA protected data, academic, employee discipline, criminal justice, financial, credit cards, DMV, ALPR, FRT...everything...(yeah, I know it would be
illegal to include some of these without consent...but let's just assume you could)

Teach the ML system to scan all data inputs (on everyone) to identify Behavioral Threat Indicators and connect the dots

Potential 'hits' would then be evaluated by a human team to assess if further follow up is merited and intervention

19

#RSAC
Could such a system be created?

#RSAC
Israel is a pioneer in advanced AI....
"The General Security Service invests heavily in AI and ML and accumulates vast amount of data to train deep learning systems to identify patterns within the data. A main innovation in recent years is the ability of AI to understand human thought through language... An `event' does not just happen it always follows previous events. We can make accurate prediction processes for events...theoretically we can predict future actions".....unattributed Israeli AI/ML expert (2019)

NSA may already have the tech to collect/process what #RSAC our proposed system would require...just saying...

sWBukhk m shksDm D
O < \T o g

n

O

Fss

t s aa'

0d g P I I F T ~

B

uB

ium m al'nS

98/ UR4 PMSIXeNveONr
Se
??eX sAGSI eod n DsS UdRNpr ni
Xg oX

1 7 23 rApi

8B!uVBg c!·b5 3Ptm7PPn o/N 8HWBg5 N::M: :1
''''''''''''''' 8B)^HLLuw4 6k5 N:SC:-:
sW Bukhu mmBrmmshksDmmDsIshD

Gnail TOP SECRET//SI//ORCON//NOEÛRK

msn Hotmail

facebook

^·Google

Google

Mg
paltalk.com CooninjciaK«' Beycoo Vxtfös & w
AOL mail <â

PRISM (TS//SI//NF) Collection Details '·PRISM,

Current Providers
· Microsoft (Hotmail, etc.) · Google · Yahoo! · Facebook · PalTalk · YouTube · Skype · AOL · Apple

What Will You Receive in Collection (Surveillance and Stored Comms)?
It varies by provider. In general:
E-mail Chat - video, voice Videos Photos Stored data VoIP File transfers Video Conferencing Notifications of target activity - logins, etc. Online Social Networking details
Special Requests

Complete list and details 011 PRISM web page: Go PRISMFAA

TOP SECRET//SI//ORCON//NOFORN

22

Identifying a potential terrorist...or identifying a #RSAC potential Active Shooter...it's all about data
23

Perhaps conceptually it would look like this...(source: #RSAC parody site not associated with the NSA)...
24

Ok -so assume the tech exists....now for the big

#RSAC

question....

25

#RSAC
Should we build it? Does the social benefit/utility outweigh the loss of privacy?
26

#RSAC
Social Utility Balance....
Positives:
­ Identify individuals who exhibit behavior threat indicators as identified by an ML driven predictive policing system (no humans involved)
­ Allow a human team to decide if further follow up is warranted and which to be contacted for potential intervention
­ Reduce (hopefully very dramatically) Active Shooter incidents
Negatives: Potential (if left unchecked)
­ Loss of privacy in all aspects of your life ­ Loss of anonymity ­ Loss of legal rights (e.g. 4th Amendment )
27

#RSAC
Black Box Issues:
Machine Learning systems teach themselves to optimize decision processes
Through this self optimization process it becomes difficult to trace how decisions are made
`Bias' as perceived by humans may be virtually impossible to uncover ­ essentially undiscoverable in the heart of optimization engines
28

#RSAC
Lot's of Practical Issues
Public transparency of the algorithms and data inputs
Minimize algorithmic bias potential that can taint predictions
Legal defense and discovery issues
But...certainly not impossible to overcome IF society believes the benefits exceed the costs
29

#RSAC
30

#RSAC
Some Key Takeaways...My View
· Technology and Big Data make an ML driven All Source Collection Predictive Policing system to benchmark established threat indicators possible.
· Governments have legitimate state interests in providing safety and security for citizens but...
· There is no question a system as described to detect Active Shooters would require each of us to give up privacy and other rights. Is it worth it?
· Currently insufficient safeguards exist (data integrity, fairness of algorithms, potential misuse, data security/breach protection) including legal/civilian checks/balances ­ but the system could theoretically be built with sufficient algorithmic transparency
31

#RSAC
Apply What You Have Learned Today
· Next Week: - For Enterprises/Individuals: Research and identify relevant data collection and predictive policing government initiatives that exist or may be adopted in your areas of operation/jurisdictions
· Over the Next Four Weeks: - For Enterprises: Define potential opportunities for your enterprise
created by the government initiatives identified - For Individuals: Consider steps to minimize your digital footprint
https://inteltechniques.com/book4.html)
· Over the Next Three Months: - For Enterprises: Take positive steps to tender or pitch your
products/services to relevant government agencies - For Individuals: Minimize your digital footprint and be paranoid
32

#RSAC
33

#RSAC
THANK YOU!
Jeffrey J. Blatt www.xventures.com Email: info@xventures.com Twitter: @techlawexpert
34

