SESSION ID: SBX1-R11
Understanding and Disrupting Offensive Innovations

Jason Healey
Columbia University @Jason_Healey

Dmitri Alperovitch
Stealth Policy Accelerator, Co-Founder CrowdStrike @DAlperovitch
#RSAC

Bad Guys Finish First
"Few if any contemporary computer security controls have prevented a [red team] from easily accessing any information sought."

Bad Guys Finish First
"Few if any contemporary computer security controls have prevented a [red team] from easily accessing any information sought."
Lt Col Roger Schell (USAF) in 1979

http://www.economist.com/news/briefing/21618680-our-guide-actions-have-done-most-slow-global-warming-deepest-cuts

Central Question
What cybersecurity innovations have given DEFENDERS the most advantage over ATTACKERS at greatest scale and least
cost?

https://sipa.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/3668_SIPA%20Defensible%20Cyberspace-WEB.PDF

5

Key Questions for a Defensible Cyberspce
Results from NY Cyber Task Force
1. What is a defensible cyberspace and why hasn't it been defensible to date?
2. What past innovations have made the biggest difference? What made them so successful?
3. What innovations should we prioritize today?

https://sipa.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/3668_SIPA%20Defensible%20Cyberspace-WEB.PDF

6

7

Important Defensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force

Important Defensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force
We tend to invest and measure HERE:
technology inside the enterprise

Important Defensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force
When the real gains are here: innovations with impact not in a single enterprise but across all of
cyberspace

Important Defensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force
And overlook gains from operational and process
innovations: · CISO · ISACs · Kill Chain and @TTACK

Central Question

What cybersecurity innovations have given DEFENDERS the most advantage over ATTACKERS at greatest scale and least
cost?

Extremely successful!
But what if flip the perspective and not center on defensive innovations...

https://sipa.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/3668_SIPA%20Defensible%20Cyberspace-WEB.PDF

12

Let's Flip That Central Question

What cybersecurity innovations have given ATTACKERS the most advantage over DEFENDERS at greatest scale and least
cost?
Thanks to our collaborators on this! · Rob Sheldon · Mike Klipstein

https://sipa.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/3668_SIPA%20Defensible%20Cyberspace-WEB.PDF

13

OFFENSIVE INNOVATIONS
14

Important Offensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force

Driven by Attackers
Innovation originated with hackers, security researchers
or other non-defenders

Technology
· Whistle for 2600Hz tone (1960s) · Mass scanning, eg NMAP (1990s) · Password cracking tools: John the Ripper, Rainbow
Tables, hydra (1990s) · Point-and-click worm and virus kits (1990s) · Interactive reversing tools: IDA Pro, Binary Ninja,
Ghidra, etc (1990s) · Malware obfuscation (2000s) · Inexpensive rootkits, eg BO2K (2000s) · Metasploit (2000s) · Botnet and effective command & control (2000s) · Exploit writing aides: Pwntools, mona, ROP chain finders
(i.e., Ropper, RopGadget), Cain & Abel · Fuzzers: Peach, BURP Suite, AFL, etc. · Shodan for IoT scanning (2010s) · Low-cost COTS offensive security capabilities: Pwnie
Express, Wifi Pineapple, Rubber Duckie, ProxMark, etc. (2010s) ·

Type of innovation.
Operations
· Hacktivism organizations (1990s) · Information exchanges: Hacker conferences, YouTube
videos, CTF competitions (1990s) · Carder markets (2000s) · 4chan instigation and organization of attacks operations
(2000s) · Rent-a-DDoS or rent-a-botnet services (2000s) · Bulletproof hosting · Arrangements with banks for large-scale monetization · Cybercrime-as-a-service (2010s) · Bitcoin and other anonymized payment methods
(2010s) · Snowden, Vault7, Shadow Broker leaks (2010s)

Policy
· National sanctuaries for cyber criminals if they don't attack host nation
· States using proxy groups and ignoring criminal side jobs · Lack of deterrent for `grey area' operations · Deliberately weak financial controls to abet corruption and
criminal enterprises

· Many innovations helped defenders as well as attackers. · Inclusion here doesn't imply they were mistakes or helped attackers more then defenders · Dates are when innovations first started to gain mass. In many cases, they've continued to the present day
15

Important Offensive Innovations of the Past 50 Years
New York Cyber Task Force

Technology

What kind of innovation is it?
Operations

Policy

Driven by Defenders
Innovation resulted from actions taken by defenders,
consumers or other nonattackers

· Insecure fundamental protocols: BGP, TCP/UDP, DNS, IP
v4/v6 · Insecure wireless protocols: BlueTooth, WiFi, Zigbee, etc · Use of weak, hard-coded, or default passwords · Hyper vulnerable, interactive web languages and client-
side applications: Java Script, nodeJS, ActiveX, PHP,
VBScript · Deployment of insecure software · Market incentives which reward rushing insecure software
to market · Mass deployment of insecure IoT · Untrackable shadow IT · Ubiquitous encryption across the boundary (e.g. SSL)
obfuscating exfiltration of info

· Limited trust, reluctant information sharing, poor corporate governance

· Decreasing global trust and governance · New top-level domains · Weak cybersecurity laws · Few, weak global cyber norms · Liability concerns driving secrecy · Lack of sensible regulations that can drive accountability

16

LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
17

Commonalities and Differences
· Limited attacker innovation · Many offensive innovations are `self-inflicted' · In many cases though, defensive benefits outweigh the
offensive gains · More debate is needed on costs vs benefits or how to limit
criminal use · Hard to argue that the ecosystem overall is improving despite
individual successes
18

Disrupting Offensive Innovations at Scale
Example: Disrupting Cashing Out
"95% of spam-advertised pharmaceutical, replica and software products are monetized using merchant services from just a handful of banks"
19

Disrupting Offensive Innovations at Scale

Transactions

· For the few tens of dollars for a modest online purchase, our data shows that it is possible to identify a portion of the underlying payment infrastructure and, within weeks, cause it to be terminated.
· This termination cost is inevitably far higher-- in fines, in lost holdback, in time and in opportunity cost--than the cost of the intervention itself.
· Relatively concentrated actions with key financial institutions can have outsized impacts.
20

About Offensive Security
· OFFSEC does of course aid defenders · Critical question:
­ Which aspects most help defenders more than attackers? ­ Needs analysis based on measurements not anecdotes or inertia
21

https://sipa.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/3668_SIPA%20Defensible%20Cyberspace-WEB.PDF

THANK YOU

@Jason_Healey @DAlperovitch
22

"Apply" Slide
Bullet point here (see slides 5 ­ 8 for instructions) Bullet point here Bullet point here
23

