What is a Cybersecurity Business Counselor (CBC)?
Cybersecurity & Economic Sustainability
Laura Baker Co-Founder, CyberWyoming

Education, Research & Outreach

Workforce Development

A nonprofit affiliate of
Advancing the security of Wyoming through information sharing....

Economic Development Keeping Business in Business!

2020 Wyoming Cybersecurity Competition for Small Businesses
SPONSOR
Promotion of Competition Prizes/Sponsorship  News Releases & Articles  Speaking Engagement at Cyber
Conference  And More

 Manages Entries & Participants  Cybersecurity Checklist Process
with Cybersecurity Business Counselors (CBCs)

 Impartial Panel of Judges

Small businesses...
65% said their budget for achieving a strong security posture is inadequate or unsure if their budget is adequate.
This is the disturbing chart for small business... Who determines IT security priorities?
2019 Global State of Cybersecurity in Small and Medium-Sized Businesses, Keeper Security & Ponemon Institute.

Wyoming
Overall Reported Losses 2016: $913,941 2017: $2,331,692 2018: $4,517,128
Wyoming Population: 577,737 in 2018

Business Email Compromise Reported Losses 2016: $52,195 2017: $1,289,623 2018: $1,637,116
Corporate Data Breach Reported Losses 2016: $37,038 2017: $112,996 2018: $443,163

https://www.ic3.gov/media/annualreports.aspx Internet Crimes Complaint Center (FBI)

Why are business owners getting worse at decisions related to cybersecurity?
 It won't happen to me. (Denial)  I have more immediate needs to spend my money on. (Self-control
bias towards the now.)  The personal data is already `out there'. (Difficulty in dealing with
cumulative risks)  I am uncomfortable with technology.  I don't understand or trust technology experts.
Privacy in electronic commerce & economics of immediate gratification, Acquisti, 2004.
I trust my peers but not cybersecurity experts.
Behavior Change Interventions for Cybersecurity, Chapter 6, Messenger Effect.
Psychological biases

Definition
For Business Owners:
An intensive, holistic method of engaging and supporting an individual (business owner) to increase self-efficacy and meet specific cybersecurity goals.
The ability to produce a desired
result; a.k.a. cyber leadership

Why Use the Wraparound Method?
1. Proven method to change behavior. 2. Meets psychological distortions with a psychological method.

History of the Wraparound Method
 Juvenile Mental Health (1980's)
 Increased residential placements, positive outcomes, school success, and decreased juvenile justice recidivism
 K-12 (Harlem Children's Zone Project 1990's)
 Increased test scores, graduation rates, and college entry rates
 Others are currently testing it with
 College Honors Program  College 2+2 Transfer Programs

NOT TECHNOLOGY
CENTRIC
Wraparound is Human-Centric
Cybersecurity needs to be looked at as human-centric!
Adoption of cybersecurity best practices is about motivation, recognition, and education.

Wraparound for Cybersecurity
텶s iterative in nature to create a positive spiral that reinforces self-efficacy  Creates
 Positive outcomes  Cost savings
텾ositive Behavior Changes

Positive Change
19 Bruns, E. J., Walker, J. S., & The National Wraparound Initiative Advisory Group. (2008). Ten principles of the wraparound process. In E. J. Bruns & J. S. Walker (Eds.), The resource guide to wraparound. Portland, OR: National Wraparound Initiative, Research and Training Center for Family Support and Children's Mental Health.

How does Wraparound support Business Owners?
I am supported and I am not alone!
Creates a team environment
Banking Representative

CBC
CBC = Cybersecurity Business Counselor

Business or Organization
Chamber and EDCs

Insurance Agent
Attorney
Technology Company

How does Wraparound support Business

Owners?

I am supported and I am not alone!

텰apitalizes on company's strengths

텰apitalizes on business owner's leadership strengths

텾romotes a monitored cybersecurity environment

텾rovides experiences of efficacy and success

텾rovides recognition of success

RECOGNITION: Make Cybersecurity Efforts VISIBLE
Ex. Made Safe marketing materials
Imagine this next to your cash register.

What does the CBC do?
Walks them through a cybersecurity checklist using the wraparound method
1  Commitment and Privacy Statements

2  Engagement and Team Preparation

3  Initial Plan Development

4  Implementation

5  Transition

Quarterly & annual reminders

What makes a qualified CBC?
Choose someone personable with a business-minded background; someone that can related to business owners.
How do you pay for a CBC?

Case Study:
Partnerships & Grants!

Chamber core strengths

 Networking  Accessibility  Approachable  Referrals  Advice  Really KNOW the community

https://www.digitaldoughnut.com/articles/2017/augu st/6-degrees-of-separation-is-now-2

Scope
To increase small business cybersecurity advocacy, education, awareness, and adoption of best practices in the Cheyenne community by training a cybersecurity business counselor (CBC) who will assist businesses and reside in the Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce.

Objective 1
Hire and provide technical literacy training for a CBC (Cybersecurity Business Counselor) in the Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce to run the Made Safe in Wyoming program.

Economic Stability Program
Threat Communication

Local cyber advisory committee, threat alert lists, national programs

Made Safe Cybersecurity Checklist Process
Threat Communication

Local Chamber of Commerce or EDC
Cybersecurity Business Counselor (CBC)

Business members

Non-profit members

CBC Training & Ongoing Support
Branding & Licensing

Objective 2

Yes, the Chamber is charging extra for this service...

Create sustainable cybersecurity business support program, with the trained CBC, within 1 year by combining the Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce Accreditation program with CyberWyoming's Made Safe in Wyoming Program.

60 businesses = sustainability, if you are hiring a full time person

Objective 3
Reduce business cyber risks by recruiting businesses for the Made Safe in Wyoming program, providing support for them through the Program, and rewarding them when they meet best practices in cybersecurity.

Businesses will
 Demonstrate leadership through operating their business considering government cybersecurity regulations and the direct impact on the local area.
 Exhibit ability to identify and accommodate present and future cybersecurity needs for optimal operations.
 Encourage company employees to have a vested interest in bigger cause and being cyber safe at work.
 Adopt stances which help with brand reputation and publically impacting more than just the business but the community.

Business owners will
Be proud of what they have accomplished!
The Cheyenne Chamber will
Know that they effectively retained businesses in their community.

Thank you for your time. Questions?
Laura Baker www.cyberwyoming.org laurab@cyberwyoming.org

