Monday, February 29th: 8:30 - 4:00
Be sure to add the CSA Summit to your RSA® Conference schedule!
Join the CSA Summit 2016 to learn about enterprise progress in shifting to cloud computing and key emerging trends in information security.
This partial list of sessions will be updated in January:
"Entrepreneurship in Information Security" Robert Herjavec, CEO, Herjavec Group and Star of ABC's Shark Tank
"Advanced Malware and Botnets: Understanding the New Concept of `Attack Fan-out' in the Cloud" Krishna Narayanaswamy, Chief Scientist, Netskope
The rapid rise in cloud adoption ­ of which organizations have underestimated the scope by nearly 10x - has created a new effect: a "cloud attack fan-out." Between many connected devices, which increase attack surface, and capabilities like sync and share, which increase data velocity in the cloud, both the propensity for and the severity of breaches rise. Join Mr. Narayanaswamy, Netskope co-founder and chief scientist, for an in-depth look at data breaches involving cloud services and how they come about. Krishna will take a fun, "CSI-like" approach and draw upon unique, anonymized data seen in the cloud to illustrate:
 The multiplier effect that the cloud can have on the probability of a data breach  Three real-world examples of the cloud's role in data breaches, including a step-by-step
review of a recent exploit discovered in a cloud storage app  A "how to" for identifying data breaches in an enterprise cloud environment using advanced
anomaly detection techniques
"Centralizing Cloud Security in a De-Centralized World" Rajiv Gupta, CEO Skyhigh Networks and John Stewart, SVP, CISO Cisco
With the average company using 1,154 cloud services and 16% of data headed to cloud file-sharing services classified as sensitive, it's no wonder that companies are looking to Cloud Access Security Brokers (CASB) to help them define what data goes to the cloud and how it's accessed, shared, and protected. In fact Gartner specifically states, "Security leaders should deploy CASB for the centralized control of multiple services that would otherwise require individual management" In this session we'll share real-world practices from large enterprises that are using CASBs to create a "control point for the cloud", enabling them to centralize security policies for all services in a world where users, devices, and data are increasingly decentralized and outside the perimeter.
"Containers: A Security Threat or Opportunity?" Sol Cates, Chief Security Officer, Vormetric and Paul Williams, Director, Business Operations at Rackspace Global Enterprise Security

"Defending The Whole: IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS" Mark Nunnikhoven, Vice President, Cloud Research, Trend Micro
Cloud computing is a fact of life for enterprise IT delivery. Over the past few years, enterprise culture has shifted to accept that cloud computing is the way forward. But the end result isn't that simple. Due to the variety of requirements and available solutions, enterprises implement a array of cloud services, from multiple providers, using all three SPI deployment models (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS). While there is strong guidance available on a strategic level, it rarely addresses the reality of an enterprise implementation. How do today's enterprises reconcile the diverse risk profiles of these services? How do they monitor that risk in order to inform their defense? This talk focuses on how a modern security practice addresses these challenges in the reality of multi-model delivery.
"The Need for Unified Identity in a Hybrid IT World" Bill Mann, Senior Vice President of Products and Marketing, Centrify
We need to rethink security. Perimeter based approaches of yesterday will not work for our depremeterized enterprises leveraging cloud with mobile and outsourced work forces. The #1 attack vector is now compromised identities. Learn about this new layer of security based upon identity ­ how it will help to reduce the risk of breaches, and why a unified approach is required to secure your organization in the new cloud and mobile world.
Panel: "Overcoming the Top Threats to Cloud Computing" Rich Campagna, VP Products and Marketing, Bitglass; Rohit Gupta, Founder & CEO, Palerra; Sami Laine, Principal Technologist, CloudPassage; Erik Peterson, Director of Technology Strategy, Veracode; Raj Samani, VP, CTO, Intel Security EMEA
Cloud computing represents the next generation of IT, and can be the more secure option, if understood and managed properly. In this panel, leading industry experts discuss the top security threats to cloud computing usage as defined by Cloud Security Alliance. This panel will review the threat vectors that are unique to or magnified by cloud computing, and discuss proactive security measures that can be deployed to mitigate security risks. From data protection to policy compliance to attack detection and remediation, the panel will provide state of the art advice that attendees can use today to protect their cloud investments.

