SESSION ID: GRC-W03
Integrating Cybersecurity Into Supply Chain Risk Management

Jon Boyens
Program Manager, Cyber SCRM National Institute for Standards and Technology

#RSAC

#RSAC
What does Cybersecurity Have to Do with Supply Chains Anyway?

#RSAC
ICT and Non-ICT External Dependencies

ICT Supply Chain (ICT Products & Services)

TRUST

-Organization

-Process

Non-

-Products/Service

ICT Partne

rs

Non-ICT Products & Service

Up Stream
ENTITY
Down Stream

But Verify -Due Diligence -Standards/Audits -Testing
Non-ICT Products & Service
NonICT Partne rs
ICT Supply Chain (ICT Products & Services)
3

#RSAC
Anatomy of Cyber Supply Chain Risk
Product Design Design Flaws

Inbound Supply Chain: Risks from Suppliers

Manufacturing/ SC Risks

Outbound Supply Chain

Unwanted Functionality Info/Network Breaches Supplier Insider Threats

Theft/alteration of data Compromise of SC business SW Compromise of control systems, test or other equipment. Disruptions in vetted suppliers
4

Theft/Tampering Counterfeits

#RSAC
How Did We Get Here?

· Growing sophistication of ICT · Number and scale of information systems Cyber · Increasing reliance on COTS

· Speed and scale of globalization

Supply Chain

· Complex supply chain (logically long and geographically diverse)

· Significant increase in the number of entities who `touch' products and services Risk · Natural disasters, poor product/service quality and poor security practices

· Lack of visibility and understanding: how technology is developed, integrated and Manag deployed and practices to assure security. ement · A lack of control of the decisions impacting the inherited risks and ability to
effectively mitigate those risks.
5

#RSAC
No End in Sight for Supply Chain Cyber Risks
Three trends are exacerbating cyber risks to supply chains:  Internet of Things: everything is smart and interconnected  IT-enabled Supply Chain Management: product and supply
chain data run on top of business software that connects supply chains ­ and weak links abound globally  3-D Printing: production is going viral and digital.
6

#RSAC
Cyber Supply Chain Risks Emerge At Every Stage
What Can Happen? Delivery of poor quality, compromised or counterfeit products that diminish brand reputation Loss of intellectual property shared with supply chain partners Access to company IT networks, customer information or operational control systems through supplier access Impact on revenues, brand reputation and shareholder value
7

What Does Supply Chain Have to Do with

#RSAC

Cyber Risks?

80% of all info breaches originate in the supply chain

45% of all cyber breaches were attributed to past partners

72% of companies do NOT have full visibility into their
supply chains

59%
they
40%

of companies do NOT have a process for assessing cybersecurity of third party providers with which share data or networks
of attack campaigns targeted manufacturing and

service

sectors (20% each).
8

#RSAC
Supply Chain Disruptions are Costly!
98% of manufacturers will experience a supply chain
disruption in the next 2 years (80% for all firms)
55% of disruptions cost over $25 million 53% of disruptions caused from unplanned IT/Comms outage 24% of disruptions caused from cyber attacks 22% of disruptions caused from data breaches
Need More?
9

#RSAC
What's the Risk? For Example....
Supplier-provided keyboard software gave hackers access to owner data on 600 million Samsung Galaxy phones Supplier-provided advertising SW tampered with computer security so that attackers could snoop on browser traffic on Lenovo computers. Poor information security by service suppliers led to data breaches at Target, Home Depot, Goodwill....and many others.
10

Match the Supplier with the Compromised

#RSAC

Customer

Suppliers

Customers

Data breach of Tech Certification firm exposed personnel data on employees of client company

Maroochy

Hack of credit check database exposed new customer PPI.

Cisco

Supplier entertainment system enabled remote takeover of controls in a car.

Fiat/Jeep

Uncancelled credentials of former contractor enabled unauthorized sewage release from water treatment plant.
11

T-Mobile

#RSAC
Ask Yourself the Following
Can you identify the sub-tier suppliers for critical IT components or software embedded in your products and systems? Is cyber risk part of vendor selection, management and audit? Do you know what information or IT systems your vendors can access? Do you scrutinize vendor personnel practices?
12

#RSAC
And Most Importantly....
Does the IT Security Group participate in the procurement process, vendor assessments and vendor management? What other groups should you be working with to assure end-to-end cybersecurity?
13

#RSAC
What are best practices and tools to manage supply chain cyber risks?

#RSAC
NIST Case Studies

Cisco Boeing & Exostar Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories Exelon Corporation John Deere Intel Corporation Smart Manufacturing Leadership Coalition Northrop Grumman Corporation

Fujitsu FireEye Dupont Crop Protection Resilinc Procter & Gamble NetApp Juniper Networks Great River Energy Utility Company Communications Company
15

#RSAC
Findings from NIST Case Studies
Key Findings: Existing tools to mitigate supply chain for quality, integrity, security and continuity risks are also relevant for cyber risks Best practices and tools to mitigate cyber risks in the supply chain are hiding in plain sight ­ often in other parts of the company.
Synergies of solution are not well exploited.
16

Organizational Strategies to Manage Supply

#RSAC

Chain Cyber Risks

Many hands and different functions affect cyber risks in the supply chain. Lack of communication and cooperation creates risk blind spots.
17

Security

Sourcing

ERM R&D

ENG.

QA

Legal IT

SC Risk Owners

#RSAC
Best SCRM Practice: Supply Chain Risk Council
Supply Chain Risk Councils bring together key players for a holistic and end-to-end supply chain risk management strategy
18

#RSAC
Vendor Risk Assessment Tools
What? Risk ratings to assess and mitigate vendor performance financial, security risks as well as corporate social responsibility risks. Synergies with Cyber Risks:  Baseline security requirements for contracts  Integrates security risks with other business risks in the up-front
selection process and ongoing audits.
19

#RSAC
Supply Chain Resiliency Tools
What? Databases identifying and mapping key suppliers at all levels, components and critical chokepoints as well as prequalified backup sources of supply and vendors Synergies with Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management
Identifies lower tier suppliers Validated sources of backup supply in the event of disruption, reducing risk that poor quality or counterfeit goods enter SC.
20

#RSAC
Track and Trace Tools
What? Detailed information on parts and materials to ensure quality, integrity and backstop warranties. Where it was built? Who built it? What assembly line? What test station?
Cybersecurity Benefits Visibility by part, supplier, production process down supply chain Anti-counterfeiting tools Capability to distinguish between design flaws and deliberate defects
21

#RSAC
Master Security Specification Framework
What? Master security specification customizes security requirements to product, service or site. Cybersecurity Benefits
Gives business units a full roadmap of security requirements Eliminates inconsistencies across business units Enables flexibility to deal with multiple supplier roles
22

#RSAC
Enterprise Risk Intelligence
What? Data collection center reviewing all sources, not just those traditionally associated with information security

Server Event Logs Antivirus Logs

Endpoint Device Logs

Personnel Information

Firewall Logs

Data Collection & Analysis

In-Scope Equipment

23

#RSAC
Resources: NIST Best Practice Case Studies
http://www.nist.gov/itl/csd/best-practices-in-cybersupply-chain-risk-management-october-1-2-2015.cfm
Disclaimer: "The identification of any commercial product or trade name is included solely for the purpose of providing examples of publicly-disclosed events, and does not imply any particular position by the National Institute of Standards and Technology."
24

#RSAC
Questions?
Thank you!!
Jon Boyens Program Manager, Cyber SCRM National Institute for Standards and Technology Jon.Boyens@nist.gov Http://scrm.nist.gov

