Session ID: HUM-T09
Breaking In Is Easy--Breaking Bad Habits Is HARD!

Jayson Street
InfoSec Ranger Pwnie Express @jayson@pwnieexpress.com

#RSAC

#RSAC
Legal Disclaimer
2

#RSAC
(I'm the one who doesn't knock) 3

#RSAC
#whoami
@jayonstreet V3rb0t3n.com dissectingthehack.com awkwardhugs.org
4

You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means.
Everyone keeps repeating the term Advance Persistent Threats like a broken record! Why not throw some love to Basic Adorable Destruction?!? We all know how easy it is to just be BAD!

The key indicators of a person doing BAD
1. RECON Mode is only about 2 hours of Google & Victim's own website. (Though I've never used the full 2 hours yet) 2. Social Engineering Mode is usually walking into victims location and winging it (note sometimes without doing #1) 3. Pwnage Mode is basically plugging in a device to the victims computer or network (sometimes with their help) 4. ???? 5. Profit!?!

So let's break down the 3 best approaches I've used to be BAD
1.Tech, Repair Guy, Delivery, Job Applicant, Customer, Wanderer 2.Auditor, Executive, Policy Enforcement 3.Crazy Off The Wall Personalities (Not recommended but totally fun and usually work)

Story Time

@hackerstrip

http://hackerstrip.com

Time from 1st walk into door to full access to bank. = 2 minutes & 22 seconds

I was there doing BAD things for over TWENTY MINUTES! WITHOUT BEING STOPPED!
So I have the employee ID, password & smart card! Now I need their PC and Network access

Well I needed a computer!

Well I got a computer!

Last I needed access to their internal network!....... OK DONE!

SL

Rules of Engagement 1.Talk to no one coming in or out of the building. 2. Only stay in the public areas if you do get in. 3. You can only talk to the cleaners but you are not allowed to lie to them!

#RSAC

How did that work out for them?!?

Attacks that make you go...huh?!

Barefoot & Bad.... Also successful!

Barefoot & Bad.... Also successful!
Target ­ One of the most prestigious hotels in Southern France Pretext ­ Drunk hotel guest who was jetlagged.

Barefoot & Bad.... Also successful!
Outcome ­ Total compromise of the entire hotel! Results ­ Client learned to treat guest with some suspicion not just respect!

We have learned to be afraid of people with these!
(Well maybe not scared of these guys) ;-)

But not people with THESE!

OR THESE!!!!

1. Teach employees common dangers they face not only at work but at home as well! Make them security conscious by default not by policy!
2. Drive home the fact that "Stranger Danger" is a good policy no matter how old you are!
3. Create teachable events year round not an annual exercise in futility!

#RSAC

1. Users are not your problem they are part of your solution!
1. Give your employees a way to be effective then let them KNOW about it!
2. Give them opportunities to do the right thing & reward them when they succeed & teach when they fail.

1. Do employees see policy being enforced EVENLY throughout the enterprise? 2. Using positive reinforcement sometimes is more effective than the negative kind. 3. Visibility is sometimes all that is necessary!

Now let's learn from others
Discussion and Questions???? Or several minutes of uncomfortable silence it's your choice.
This concludes my presentation Thank You

LINKS as you LEAVE
http://pwnieexpress.com/jaysonstreet
Twitter @jaysonstreet Shout outs to @sehnaoui, Sara Kantor, @Hak5Darren, @Pwnieexpress, @GreyBrimstone, @KentNabors

