SESSION ID: PROF-M02
Hackers Hiring Hackers ­ How to Do Things Better
#RSAC

Tim O'Brien
Director, Threat Research Palerra CTO/CISO, Xero Equipment @obrientg
Magen Wu
Security Consultant Rapid7 @Tottenkoph

#RSAC
Target Audience
Hiring managers
On the quest to hire information security professionals People who will stay and grow with the company
Hackers
In the traditional sense, not the 'new' definition by the press Those with little to no "professional" experience Those with plenty of experience looking for next opportunity
2

#RSAC
Inspiration For This Talk
Little light being shed on this topic "It is hard to find people to hire" Both sides of the hiring practice have problems
Setting expectations Applications and resume gathering/submissions Interviewing Post-interview
3

#RSAC
Expectations

#RSAC
Expectations
"We can't find anyone to hire!" Vs
"Must work in our corporate office in Wichita, initially on a six month contract to fire with a rotating SOC shift cycle.
Oh, and you start on night shift.
5

#RSAC
Readjust Expectations
"Over the years, what we have essentially done--intentionally or not--is create a sub-category of talent whom we will never hire.
The Unhireable. ... -Winn Schwartau, "Hiring the unhireable"
6

#RSAC
Hiring Manager, What Do You Want?
Use the right title for the role
A majority of titles being posted don't match with the expectations
Be clear and concise with position descriptions (PDs)
It is easy (and common) to see PDs that are all over the place It's ok to say you're looking for a generalist Avoid misrepresentation
7

#RSAC
Hiring Manager, What Do You Need?
Consider what matters
Experience (need vs affordability) Certifications and degrees
Are they relevant to the position? Can the business afford reimbursement if passed a certain amount of time after being hired?
Conciseness can reduce the likelihood of alienating potential applicants
8

#RSAC
Scoping The Role
Contractor or full time employee? Specialty roles versus "Jack of All Trades"
Both have their benefits and drawbacks Consider type of specialty roles (analysts, engineers, architects)
State the realm that applicants will be working in
Application, network, or system security? Vendor-specific preferences
9

#RSAC
Organizational Placement
Who will be their direct report? Report to?
Does the team report to IT, compliance, or Legal?
Consider conflicts of interest
Over-extension of new and current employees
Start ups & small companies
10

#RSAC
Hacker Expectations
Sometimes unrealistic...
High pay With no bureaucracy All the tools you want ­ or the freedom to build new With a free pass to hacker summer camp (BlackHat/DEFCON)
Sometimes realistic, but not doable
11

#RSAC
Application Process

#RSAC
The Application Process
Prepare
Both sides struggle with this Know what questions you want to ask Understand how to measure and determine "good fit"
Consider the timing
Determine when in the year is best to recruit for the role Applicants should look at dates jobs are posted before applying to set expectations
13

#RSAC
Hiring Managers Finding Candidates
Get involved in your
Local IT & InfoSec communities and Meetup groups Mailing lists and forums Local tech/college professional meetings
Posting online
Monster, CareerBuilder, Beyond, Indeed, etc. Craigslist Technical & topic related forums on Reddit, Stack Overflow, etc. Work with your marketing team for social media exposure Closed, invite only IT/InfoSec communities & lists (NinjaJobs.org)
14

#RSAC
Finding Candidates
What is your role in talent?
One of your obligations as a hiring manager, as a leader in InfoSec is to nurture talent in our field Your involvement in the local groups helps promote (your team, your company, the industry) & screen potential candidates
15

#RSAC
HR And Recruiters
Paid recruiters, overseas body shops are helping perpetuate the contractor class; avoid please
Recruiter roadblocks or helping you attract talent? Your HR/recruiting staff and their initial contacts and conversations with candidates set the tone for the process, ensure they are good ones Sets up expectations for the next step(s) Sends the screening questionnaire, expecting the applicant to do their work Starts off with a poor experience Candidates will go elsewhere
16

#RSAC
Questioning Compensation
Salary history
You know the range, pay them what they are worth
Incentives
Flexible work schedule Work from home/remote Training budget Conferences PTO
17

#RSAC
18

#RSAC
19

#RSAC
Application Tracking Systems
Ensure the ATS you use doesn't require PII/NPPI
SSANs in BrassRing
Test and validate your application process
Get a friend to apply, do they make it through the process? Past HR at least?
Avoid the common application fails
The initial impressions last
20

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ PII & NPPI
21

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ PII & NPPI & Certs
22

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ HTTPS & Certs
23

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ HTTPS & Certs
24

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ Passwords
25

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ Bad UI & AppSec
26

#RSAC
ATS Fails ­ Bad Error Handling
27

#RSAC
The Owl Question
28

#RSAC
Hackers: Hack Your Resume
Experience reflects your background and the role
No stretching the truth
Careful on the buzzword bingo
Enough to match the role in the big HR and ATS matching Know what the terms mean
Tailor your resume to make it relevant to the employer/hiring manager and the role
29

#RSAC
Hackers: Hack The File Name
Have your resume/CV as long as it needs to be.
Is your resume long enough so it reaches where it's supposed to go?
1 or 2 page resume, and a full CV
Different hiring managers, different preferences
File names make a difference
Distinguish yourself from other candidates Managers and HR make mistakes, and lose documents; good labeling helps you out.
Sanitize the metadata
30

#RSAC
Customized Resumes
The full CV with buzzword bingo for the heavyweight application tracking systems
Import, then tweak details The 1 or 2 page resume for human digestion
Include with the ATS application as well
31

#RSAC
Security Clearances
Do not belong on the resume or your social media profiles Broadcasting makes you a bigger target and look unprofessional DSS/OPM does not look kindly on this
Read the NDA you signed Does not matter that the APT$ stole it all When asked by HR, the proper answer: "That information can be verified with a conversation with your Personal Security Officer." If this answer is not satisfactory, do you want to work for them?
32

#RSAC
Don't Pen Test With Your Resume
Submit resumes as text, RTF, and/or PDF Do not insert malicious code or trackers into your resume or cover letter
Nor should you conduct a penetration test on the application systems
33

#RSAC
Am I Qualified?
Remember: Determining if you are qualified for the role is not your job. It is the job of HR (and perhaps the ATS), the Hiring Manager and
perhaps their leadership to make that determination.
34

#RSAC
Application Tracking System
There are different Application Tracking Systems (ATS)
Heavyweight application systems with data mining looking for keywords & application management
Taleo, iCIMS, SuccessFactors, PeopleSoft, Bullhorn, Brassring Lightweight application tracking
Workday, Jobvite, SilkRoad, LinkedIn, SmartRecruiter Human
35

#RSAC
ATS Recommendations
Be one of the first to apply Fill out every applicable text box that you feel comfortable with Resume/CV formatting for computer readable
No graphics or special characters Web safe fonts Spell check Skills section as complete and truthful as possible
36

#RSAC
Email Applications
Quick and easy to apply, easy to get lost Subject line is important Include a cover letter in the body of the email Digital signature is a bonus
37

#RSAC
USAJobs Applications
Government roles have dedicated websites for applications
For USA, USAJobs
Mostly, some .GOV still have their own
Similar to the heavyweight ATS
Unwieldy Be sure to answer the qualifier questions Review the application process for the surprise essay questions
38

#RSAC
Hacking Back To The Basics
Use a professional looking email address Don't send it from l33tH4x0rz666@caturday.net Caution on Google data mining Best keep personal & work email separate
Conduct a search on your self & your email address
39

#RSAC
The Basics: Cover Letter
What role are you applying for? Why do you want the role? No letter indicates you are not interested, or just spamming applications Just five (5) minutes spent on why this role sounds interesting makes a difference
40

#RSAC
Hackers: Meet Hiring Managers
Reach out to your network regarding specific companies and roles
Social media
Get involved!
Local IT & InfoSec communities/Meetups Mailing lists & forums Conferences Online communities
41

#RSAC
Hackers: Working With Recruiters
There are different types of recruiters
Technical recruiters
Company Agencies (boutique and otherwise)
Agencies just looking for a body to fill a seat
Spamming of the PDs, unable to answer follow-up questions Helping perpetuate the sub class of contractor/consultant workers
42

#RSAC
Hackers: Understand The Odds
Connect with others before the search officially begins Diversify your applications Location
Depth of the labor pool Who else applied for the role You may not have the buzzword bingo or the industry background they want
43

#RSAC
Hackers: Keep Perspective
Try not to get too discouraged Have patience Keep in mind the other requirements and stressors the hiring managers have
Outside influences on the process
Get feedback from mentors & peers Remember, it is not you ­ it is not personal (normally)
44

#RSAC
The Interview

#RSAC
Pre-Interview
Consider the types of questions you want to ask BEFORE the interview
Respect the sensitivities of the applications in your questions
Creating the interviews
Balancing fact based questions vs essay/short
Does your team share questions?
Figure out who asks what Avoid duplication
46

#RSAC
Define Key Areas
How do you define key areas/topics? Testing/evaluating for specific skills? Or more General? How do you match up skills to the position description (PD), then the areas to question per candidate?
47

#RSAC
Hiring Managers
"Stump the monkey" isn't fun for anyone
Trick questions, the Google stumpers Does not convey how good of an analyst they are or could be
How the candidate processing information to mitigate the threat/risk/vulnerability Not how fast they can recite knowledge
Could dissuade a good candidate from accepting an offer
48

#RSAC
"Stump The Monkey"
The intent is to find individuals for your team, not prove how smart you are - or how dumb they are Lasting impression on you & company
See the Glassdoor interview ratings & feedback
Sometimes there is more than one answer
With the answer different than yours See Wheaton's law
49

#RSAC
Question Bias
So what if the candidate does not know how to work with oak
Can they learn to work with mahogany?
Avoid close-ended questions
"Have you worked with Oak"? "What is the UDP flag on a DNS request that fails" "What protocol uses port 0"
50

#RSAC
Toolset Bias
Best to use situational, exploratory conversations
What are some of the ways you have used wood to address vulnerabilities? Not: Have you ever used maple wood?
Review: If Carpenters Were Hired Like Programmers
51

#RSAC
Hiring Bias
Stop passing judgment
Piercings and tattoos no longer mean that they're ex-convicts
See Wheaton's Law
People get nervous and forget things
So what if they self-identify as a hacker? Lookup: Evaluate the Scrapper
52

#RSAC
Time In A Role
Why does the length of time in a role matter?
Most are out of the candidate's control Startups Company failure or change of direction Contract work Layoff, unemployment
53

#RSAC
Periods Of Unemployment
Unemployment does not mean untouchable
Put aside your bias Listen to the reason(s) and don't assume they're excuses
Discrimination Not all gaps between jobs should be a (bad) reflection on the candidate
54

#RSAC
The InfoSec Question
Can the candidate explain how you can reduce Risk by affecting Vulnerability, Threat, Asset or Cost?
Most technical folk focus on Vulnerability. Most nontechnical folk focus on Threat
We need to reduce Vulnerability and Threat, but also work on Cost
55

#RSAC
The Trifecta
Ability to learn (and want to learn skills) Passion
What is this person passionate about?
Ability to be wrong/fail, and to do so well.
We will all fail. Can you learn and grow from it, or do you hide it and try to blame others?
56

#RSAC
Hacker Wear
Leave the ski mask at home Appropriateness
A bank vs. a startup? East or West coast? Southwest?
Determine the daily dress and take it up a notch
57

#RSAC
Mind Your Manners
Don't ducking swear Watch your personal sharing & stories Personal hygiene Mind the other person's bubble Manners still count
58

#RSAC
Hack the Interview
Research on company and interviewees
Glassdoor Wikipedia Crunchbase Social media
LinkedIn, with your alternate profile & proxy Review rating Web sites, GTFG
59

#RSAC
Knowing Your Target
Understand the target organization and hiring manager
Their product, company values and culture
Able to explain why & how you are the best person for the role and the team at that company Have your message (your three bullets) and stick to them
60

#RSAC
Question Everything
From your research, have questions to ask them
Get them to sell you the role & the company This is an interview on both sides of the table
Would you want to work for the manager? Do you like the company, what they produce and stand for?
61

#RSAC
Question Everything
Have appropriate answers for every InfoSec related interview question online
How would you figure something you don't know out?
It is a judgment call on calling out interviewers regarding inappropriate questions
62

#RSAC
Question The Timing
Did the interviewees give you enough time to ask questions? Was it the token five minutes at the end of their questions? Was it a conversation between peers, or individuals in the industry - or a grilling?
63

#RSAC
Post-Interview

#RSAC
Provide Reasons, Not Excuses
In your team interviews, use a scoring system and average the scores to help eliminate bias People should be hired for aptitude, but attitude is important to an extent Think about whether you would want to work with this individual, but do not use it as an excuse when someone "better" comes along Do you think the person can do the job - or can learn? Diversity is good
65

#RSAC
Post-Interview Etiquette
Don't leave people hanging
Send an email or call with status updates Contact within 3-4 weeks at maximum
Provide feedback
If HR/Legal will allow Builds relationships within the community Helps improve the pool of candidates
66

#RSAC
Feedback
Glaring resume issues/errors Topics to review
Tools, Techniques, Procedures (TTPs) Protocols
Interview tips
Talk more/don't talk as much Etiquette
67

#RSAC
Hacker Follow-Up
Send a "thank you" email to all you talked and interacted with. Consider snail mail card Follow-up
When should you reach out if you have not heard back? Don't panic, it may take a while to hear back
Be realistic in your expectations
Know the local/regional/national market
68

#RSAC
Social Networking
Leverage your network to provide insight & potential references to the company/hiring manager How do you get previous supervisors as references? Hold off on sending social media connection requests Leave feedback on Glassdoor, Indeed, etc.
69

#RSAC
"Employers forget that the impression they leave on their employees, past & present, influences income, rep and biz dev in ways unknown."
-@kjvalentine
70

#RSAC
Applying What You Learned
Connect with at least 2 people post-conference; learn how their application and selection process works (or not work).
How can you be more active and involved in your local IT/InfoSec community?
What can you do to mentor younger/less experienced?
How can we improve our application process? Our screening process and criteria?
Have you ran a `pen test' on your application process?
71

#RSAC
Summary
Set and adjust our expectations
Our application processes are typically cumbersome and unwieldy, aim to improve them
Our interviews may not provide the best opportunities for assessing capabilities and talent
Our post-interview follow up is reflective of our communication styles and capabilities
All areas for improvement, on both sides
72

#RSAC
Thank you
@StartUpJackson, @RebeccaSlatkin, @TylerSchmall, Trey Ford aka @treyford
roadtociso.wordpress.com - Jesika McEvoy jasonbock.net - Jason Bock @kjvalentine
John Omernik aka Chief Ten Beers Winn Schwartau
All those applications we submitted, those folks we interviewed with, and those we have interviewed
73

#RSAC
References & Resources
Winn Schwartau, "Hiring the unhireable" http://techspective.net/2015/07/06/hiring-the-unhireable-its-time-we-get-over-ourselves/ If Carpenters Were Hired Like Programmers http://www.jasonbock.net/jb/News/Item/7c334037d1a9437d9fa6506e2f35eaac Why 'True Recruiters' are actually Super Unicorns https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/why-true-recruiters-actually-super-unicorns-ingeborg-van-harten Evaluate the Scrapper http://www.ted.com/talks/regina_hartley_why_the_best_hire_might_not_have_the_perfect_resume
74

