SEC 1391 Building a Security Monitoring Strategy 2.0
Paul D'Avilar | Paul Pelletier
Security Consultants ­ Professional Services

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2019 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
"People ask us all the time, `What
keeps you up at night?' And we say, `Spicy Mexican food, tweets that
affects our stock portfolios, and low cyber (attacks) preparedness."
Paul and Paul

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Paul D'Avilar
Staff Security Consultant | Splunk

Paul Pelletier
Sr. Security Consultant | Splunk

A Little About Us
We're both Splunkers for starters 

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

 Paul Pelletier
· 18 year infosec veteran with lots of
Alphabet soup behind my name
· Used to own my own MSSP
· Worked everywhere from a hometown
bank to an underground utility locating company to some of the largest consulting companies in the world
· Securing ICS and Critical infrastructure is
one of my passions
· Favorite Quote: I hope for nothing. I fear
nothing. I am free. ­ Nikos Kazantakis

 Paul D'Avilar
· 15 year infosec veteran with a primary
focus on PubSec
· Risk-centric and solution oriented ­
learning to work starter, not harder
· Reformed Google fanboy
· Deloitte Alum
· World traveler, tinker, home automation,
IoT
· Favorite Quote: The best way to predict
the future is to create it ­ Nephew's HS Graduation Wristband (credited: Abraham Lincoln and Peter Drucker)

Agenda
If all goes well, we will cover
 Why is Continuous Security Monitoring (CSM) important
· I think we talked about this last year, but in case you missed it, here's a quick recap
 What have we learned  Patterns and Principles for an effective CSM program
· Core components · Core Data sources and why · Essential use cases
· Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence vs. heuristic or static based · Measuring your maturity · How to progress up the maturity curve and stop your adversaries sooner
 Key Takeaways

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Quick Recap
The Wayback Machine

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
What's The Point Of Security Monitoring (Again)
Supports the creation and sustainability of value
Identify & protect assets (crown jewels)

Visibility
Security Ops / Incident Response Alert and investigate processes

Alignment
Cyber Hygiene Compliance

Informs the decision to take action (Tell me what I need to act on)

Risks/ Security posture (What are my vulnerabilities)

A platform based approach is needed to achieve the objectives for security monitoring

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
How To Make It Tangible (With A Framework)
Layout a roadmap for operationalizing capabilities to achieve objectives based on existing constraints

Objectives

Constrains

Capabilitie s

 What matters most
 What is achievable in a defined timeframe
 What support is needed

 Operational Requirements
 Resiliency  Laws and
Regulations  Budget

 Technologies  Processes/
Procedures
 People and skillsets

Considering Data Sources And Silos

So much noise, focus is essential

Security Policies

Security

Control

Standards Objectives

Asset Inventory

Asset Classification

Governance Risk & Compliance

Risk

Risk and Control

Control

Management

Library

Effectiveness

BCP

Training & Awareness

Threat & Vulnerability Management
Penetration Testing
Vulnerability Scanning
Red Teaming
Internet Reconnaissance
Offensive Security

Vendor Risk Contract Assessment Management

Data
Classification
Scheme

Encryption, Masking,
and Obfuscation

Supplier Management

Information & Data Privacy
Information & Data Protection

Data Leakage Protection

Entitlement Management
Key Management

Secure SDLC

Security Testing

Secure Application

WAF

Development

SSO and

IDM

Entitlement Identity & Access Access

Multi-Factor Automation Management

Management Management

Directory Services

PAM/PIM

Anti-Malware

APT

and HIPS Detection

MDM

Endpoint Security Secure VDE Configuration

Patch

/ VDI

Management Management

Responsive Security
Management
Data Activity Monitoring
IR & Crisis Management
Disaster Recovery & BCM
Legal & Electronic Discovery
Security Monitoring Services

Firewall

IDP

NAC

Secure Web Gateway Secure VPN

Network Anti-Virus

Network Security

Network
Segmentation

DDOS Protection

SPAM and Phishing Filter

Network DLP

Wireless
AAA

Physical and Data Center Security

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

So You've Decided To Implement A CSM
What's the next steps?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

 Hopefully you've picked a framework around which you can drive consistency and measure your growth/maturity
· Like NIST SP 800-137 · Risk Management Framework
 Know Thyself
· Cyber Security Bible v 1:1 · Know your people, know your critical assets and crown jewels, data categorization is key!!! · What are your drivers? Business needs Compliance Regulatory · Turn data into actions
 Drive successful business outcomes  Have a tested Incident Response plan in place (make this recurring...)

Wait!, Wait! Midcourse Adjustments
Lessons learned after a year of engaging with customers and practitioners on the topic

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Pitfalls And False Starts
Observations from the field on the adoption of key tenets from our presentation and our responses

Paralysis in getting started ­ Light on substance, strategy Lack of proper resourcing ­

stagnation

and adoption

empowerment of users

Under utilization of OOTB capabilities

Executive Sponsorship Involvement of key stakeholders that will champion the cause
Data Onboarding Strategy Guides users through the getting data into the platform and making it useful process: CIM | Validation | Use Cases
Alerting and Detection Strategy Event management and incident response framework

Scalability Plan for the security monitoring infrastructure to support the demands, being agile/ nimble, shorten time-to-value
Adoption of Technology Trends Alignment and adoption to technology trends to enable the collection, use, and incorporation of new approach such as containerization, micro-services, hyper-convergence, etc.

User Enablement Enable users through formal and informal training, they will provide your biggest return on invested $$$
Interconnected Security Stack Integrate your team, processes, and tools together including automation and orchestration where it make sense to decrease the time to make a decision and act
Analysts Focused Empower a collaborative SOC...

Smart Store Scale up/down memory and data storage independently to save money and maintain search performance.
Workload Management Prioritize allocation of compute and memory resources.
AI & ML-powered Analytics Augment human skills ...

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Our 2Cents And More
A collection of our recommendations for moving security monitoring forward and up the maturity curve

Function Data Onboarding
Alert and Detection Strategy Incident Management Workflow Technology Strategy for Security
Productive management

Recommended Actions
Make the progress visible (business leaders | ISSOs | Risk Officers) ­ build apps
Build Quick start guide (TLDR version)
Develop approve architectures/models based on alignment to vetted principles and patterns
Develop a strategy/plan for deciding importance, increasing fidelity, etc...
Understand your incident management workflow, it is never too early to build workbooks/runbooks (technology agnostics)
Align security infrastructure with organizational strategies and ownership, leverage hybrid models (no snowflakes)
Stay on top of your deployment and growth, productively engagement with your customers, build admin app

OOTB Guided Data Onboarding (14+) | Center of Excellence | Security Essentials Center of Excellence Splunk Validated Architectures good examples Splunk ES Frameworks (e.g. Risk, Threat) | SecKit | Security Essentials | ESCU
Mission Control | Splunk Phantom
Splunk Cloud | Data Stream Processor | SmartStore
Monitoring Console

So What Is Security Monitoring Again?
So lets do something already, strive to gain visibility as well as resiliency

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Pick A Security Monitoring Framework



 Cyber

Lots of different approaches

· NIST Cyber Security Framework (CSF)

· One of the most widely adopted methodologies around (it's not just for the US Government,
it's good for everyone)

· Australian Cyber Security HHS

· CIS Top 20 Critical Controls

· ISO 27001/2

· ISA62443

 Compliance

· PCI-DSS

· HIPAA

· GLBA

· SOX

Define Your Data Collection Strategy
Define your approach for collecting event data across the enterprise

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.


UF everywhere possible  Splunk your all endpoints!!!
(YES ­ those laptops and mobile devices)
 Windows baseline
· System and Security
 *nix baseline
· /var/log · /var/log/audit.log
 Insightful
· PowerShell/CLI

Log aggregation when needed  Syslog  Streaming/ Realtime data
sources ­ Kafka ...
Third Parties  Partners and collaborators  Technology providers/
vendors providing services  ....
Containers  Docker  Kubernetes  ....

Cloud Environments  PaaS
· AWS · Azure · Google · ...  SaaS · O365 · SFDC · Akamai · Security tools ·...  Private and hybrid ones too

Onboard Necessary Data Sources
This is what we recommend to get started

ES Req'd Data Sources
· Network/Host IDS · DNS · Antivirus · Email · Web Proxy · Firewall · Vulnerability Scanning · Active Directory · VPN · ***Assets and Identities is
KEY***

Ideal
· Sysmon · CLI and Powershell logging · UF's on all Endpoints · Full NGE data · Full enrichment in ES

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.


© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Adopt an Alerting and Detection Strategy 
Define your approach for detection and response to known/unknown threats

Risk based approach

Sufficient coverage & visibility of the tactics and techniques

Ability to disrupt and contain the
risk (threat/advers
ary) sooner

Be transparent ­ create awareness through reports and metrics | Visibility

Various Alerting and
Detection Strategies
Strengthen defenses by integrating existing security infrastructure together so that each part is an active participant

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

· Diamond Model for Intrusion Analysis · Mitre Att&ck · CIS · Palantir

IT

Security

IoT

Business Users Developers

On-Premises

Cloud

Considerations For Risk Based Alerting
A new'ish concept with a twist
 Alert fatigue anyone....
 Threat Intel
· Create attributions for matches
· Dynamic score based on feed, asset/identity, or
other context
 IDS/AV
· Map the IDS vendor categories into ATT&CK / Kill
chain phases
· Dynamic score based on category, asset/identity, or
other context
 Behavioral Anomaly attributions (SSE and ESCU)
 Outlier attributions ­ leveraging ML
 3rd party Integrations to include their risk attributions, like WHOIS

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.


A Risk Driven Approach To Alerting
Mindset Shift: Cast a Wide Net

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.


ri

Indicator Search

Risk Score and Attribution

Risk Index

Risk Rule

Risk Incident Rule

Not every alert (detection) should be a notable

Risk Dr

Aim To Disrupt And Contain
Ensure you can respond faster and reduce dwell times

 CIS Top 20 (really, accomplishing the top 4 is a big deal)
 ASD Essential 8
 Lockheed Martin Kill Chain
...

INTERCONNECTED SECURITY STACK
AUTOMATION AND ORCHESTRATION
MACHINE LEARNING TO AUGMENT HUMAN SKILLS

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

ADAPTIVE RESPONSE

Use Cases Oh My...
Different detection methods? What about selection criteria?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Machine Learning / Artificial Intelligence
Use Case Methods

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Baselining / historical
 Collects data, creates model, evaluate against the model
 Creates a baseline of what is "normal" and then measures any changes against that model
Utilizes very sophisticated algorithms, but is not easily customized with custom use cases/queries

Lateral Movement
 Splunk uses 45+ Anomaly classifications based off existing logs that UBA puts into various threat models
 Via unsupervised ML these use cases are created based off the available data
 Detects anomalous changes that are indicative of lateral movement

Data Exfiltration
 Again utilizing unsupervised ML we can detect changes in endpoint behavior and definitively output the results to the user as anomalies that indicate data exfil
 Anomalies are not necessarily false positives, they are changes in the behavior that have not been seen before

Heuristic And Static
Use Case Methods

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Human based
 Require extensive tuning
 Can generate more false positives
 Allows for highly/easily customized rules
 Logic is entirely up to you
These types of queries are generally not "intelligent" like ML or AI, the logic is entirely up to us. It's not generated on the fly.

Mimikatz
 This is a point detection that looks for specific terms, powershell executions and event IDs
 Still very effective
 Generates few false positives
Point detections like this are great at finding very specific events

Brute Force
 A little harder to solve because we want to successive failures followed by a singular success
 Requires extensive tuning
 Requires effective logic to tune down the noise and give actual brute force detections.

Shhhh, Keep Down The Noise
Selection is key

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

 Be strategic
· Don't pick a use case just to
have a use case
 Pick only use cases that are high value and high fidelity
 If you can't action the use case you probably don't need it
· What does the alert tell the
analyst
 Event sequencing is awesome, use it!

Machine Learning Toolkit

Expansive Data Access, Enable any user from anywhere, Architected for the hybrid world
Smart Assistants, Data Imputation, Python for Scientific Computing

Validation, Validation, Validation
How do you know your security monitoring program really works?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

I Made A Rule So I'm Good, Right?
 Confirm that your rules and correlation searches actually do what they're supposed to do
 Regression testing: does what you did 6 months ago still work?
 You don't wanna miss a thing....don't miss widely known vulns
 Identify your blind spots  Oh yeah Splunk detects that...Show
me the money!

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

A Framework For Security Content Validation

Splunk

Phantom

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Purple Teaming The Splunky Way
Phantom as the testing engine

Att&ck
Navigator

Simulation Runner

Atomic Red Team App
Adversary Simulation Playbooks

 We have lots of controls that can frustrate our adversaries

Forwarder Forwarder Forwarder

Windows

Linux

OSX

 Somehow they still achieve success

 Adversary simulation can help

Red Canary + Phantom = One Approach

Maturity, Our Favorite

Thing!!!

·

Am I like a 5 year old or a teenager or a seasoned vet

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Move Up The Maturity Scales
This is the time to be critical of one's SOC, self assess with some cadence
 Identify your current position
· Know Thyself!!! · Define responsibilities (RACI is your
friend)
 Define your strategic path
· Align business goals with strategic
security plan
 Identify skill/tooling gaps
· Where do you need more coverage,
prioritize
 Create a plan for a path forward
· Create budgetary plans
 Define timelines

Prioritization Of Objectives ­ One Approach

Lots of noise out here, focus on what matters most for your organization

H Security Policies

H Security Standards

H

H

Control

Asset

Asset

Objectives Inventory Classification

Governance Risk & Compliance

H Risk
Management

Risk and Control Library

Control Effectiveness

H BCP

Acceptable Maturity

Advance 2+ Maturity Levels

Maturity Level Advancement Scale

Training & Awareness

Threat & Vulnerability Management
Penetration Testing
Vulnerability Scanning

H
Vendor Risk Contract Assessment Management

H

H

Data
Classification
Scheme

Encryption, Masking,
and Obfuscation

Supplier Management

Information & Data Privacy
Information & Data Protection

Data Leakage Protection

Entitlement Management
H Key
Management

Red Teaming
Internet Reconnaissance
Offensive Security

Secure SDLC

Security Testing

Secure Application

WAF

Development

SSO and

IDM

Entitlement Identity & Access Access

Directory

Multi-Factor Automation Management Management Management Services

PAM

Anti-Malwar e and HIPS

H
APT Detection

MDM

Endpoint Security

H
Secure VDE Configuration Patch / VDI Management Management

Responsive Security
Management
H Data Activity Monitoring
H IR & Crisis Management
Disaster Recovery & BCM
Legal & Electronic Discovery
H Security Monitoring
Services

Advance 1 Maturity Level

H

Highest Priority

Out of Scope

Firewall

IDP

Secure Web Gateway

Secure VPN

NAC
Network Anti-Virus

Network Security

Network

DDOS

Segmentation Protection

SPAM and Phishing Filter

Network DLP

Wireless
AAA

Physical and Data Center Security

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Increased Maturity = Increased Protection
Don't go at it alone, look to industry for objective measuring sticks

 Progress up the Kill Chain for more advanced response and detections
· Requires additional data sources you may not
have
 Use Mitre Att&ck as a guide for expansion of coverage and capabilities
 Diamond Model to increase Maturity
 Conduct internal assessments using the Capability Model Maturity Integration (CMMI) or Capability to Maturity Model (C2M2)
 Utilize industry standards
 Be prepared, conduct tabletops, etc.

Source: Blue Lava

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Measure Your SOC Maturity (Continuously)
Using a data analytics driven SOC to enhance resiliency

Analysts to act as an intelligent
brain

Nerve center for security
Collaborative SOC
Establish security operations
Solve across multiple domains

Situational awareness to respond to intrusions
before assets are
at risk

· Gathering data from all areas of

Specific problem

· Discovery & prioritization of events

an organization

· Determination of risk level

· Automatically sifting through logs

· Identification of assets affected and

· Prioritizing the risks

execution of the appropriate response

· Alerting on & preventing attacks before

· Detailed visibility at the local and network

they can be executed or cause costly

levels

damage

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Demonstrate Value

Quantify your CSM program, putting data in the context of business (your

Utilize best practices

customer)

 For creating correlation searches, to architecture

 Know your customer

Focus on fidelity (quality)

 Less noise, less searches and more efficiency, more relevant alerts, better data enrichment and correlations, faster time to action

Communicate risks
 Know your assets (HVA)  Understand your vulnerabilities  Assess your threats Risk: Assets | Threats | Vulnerabilities

Executive reports (metrics)
 We need their support  They need data to help support us  Enable decision making Dashboards and rich visualizations

Key Takeaways
TLDR

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
1. Enable your people ­ biggest bang for $ 2. Be transparent ­ quantify security and
leverage metrics for your benefit (security == risks)
3. Purple teaming ­ forewarn is forearm,
practice makes perfect....
4. Participate in community ­ share lessons
learned
5. Avoid complacency ­ Continuously seek
opportunities for improvement and refinement
6. Focus on business outcomes

Sources
Links, Conf talks, and shout-outs

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

 Our .conf2018 Talk:
· https://static.rainfocus.com/splunk/splunkconf18/sess/1523538581536001Pq3N/finalPDF/SEC1
672_BuildingASecurityMonitoring_Final%20%281%29_15385960547480012LOM.pdf
 Qmulos
· https://www.qmulos.com/ · https://github.com/palantir/alerting-detection-strategy-framework · https://medium.com/palantir/alerting-and-detection-strategy-framework-52dc33722df2
 Jim Apger and Stuart McIntosh ­ Say Goodbye to Your Big Alert Pipeline...
· https://static.rainfocus.com/splunk/splunkconf18/sess/1523456018499001lxCD/finalPDF/SEC14
79_SayGoodbyeToYourBig_Final_1538509127390001SxPF.pdf
 Tim Frazier, Dave Herrald and Kyle Champlin ­ Simulating the Adversary
· https://static.rainfocus.com/splunk/splunkconf18/sess/1522696002986001hj1a/finalPDF/Simulat
ing-the-Adversary-Test-1244_1538791048709001YJnK.pdf

Q&A

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Thank You!

