The healthy approach to cyber security
For data-intensive healthcare, cyber security is integral to innovation
kpmg.com

An oncologist in New York wants to collaborate with colleagues at a European research hospital, but she is concerned about potential HIPAA violations during digital transmission of her patient's electronic health record.
Hospital administrators are planning to install an array of new medical devices to improve cardiac patient monitoring, but they are worried about introducing new network entry points for cyber-criminals.
A payer is considering a risksharing partnership with a physicians' group, but the deal is waylaid by the group's approach to securing protected health information (PHI).

Data sharing is believed by many to be the key to the superior care, improved outcomes and lower costs that healthcare consumers and regulatory authorities demand. It is much less expensive to store patients' medical histories on electronic health records (EHRs) in the Cloud. Diseases can be treated and even cured more expeditiously when doctors are able to search peer-reviewed studies worldwide using cognitive computing. Patient outcomes are improved when doctors can use the Internet of Things to monitor medication adherence and vital signs. Patients in rural and remote areas can gain access to critical medical care in real time via telemedicine technologies.
Digital innovations such as these are poised to take the healthcare industry into the future. However, it is crucial for provider organizations to remember that, for all the opportunities these technologies offer, they also come with significant security and privacy risks.

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

"The value of digital assets across healthcare is skyrocketing--as are the risks and costs of regulatory non-compliance, reputational damage, and related cyber and privacy breaches," says Liam Walsh, Principal and Healthcare & Life Sciences Line of Business Leader, KPMG Advisory. "The challenge is to develop an accurate assessment of an organization's true risk profile and then consciously weigh its genuine risk tolerance against the existing cyber-security investment. I believe many will find that their investments are falling far short."
Certainly there are strategies, processes and technologies to mitigate a breach once it has occurred. And, according to research by Forbes Insights and KPMG, organizations feel they are making the needed investments in cyber-security programs. However, to mount a truly effective defense, cyber security must become part and parcel of innovation. Effective cyber programs are focused on more than just compliance and threat management but also on the business value cyber can bring to the new approaches, models and capabilities that drive healthcare.

43% of respondents to KPMG's survey have not increased their cybersecurity budget despite knowledge of recent highprofile breaches
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

This report outlines key findings from the 2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights CyberSecurity Survey of 100 senior executives from the healthcare field. [One-hundred senior life sciences executives were surveyed as well.] The findings indicate that companies are elevating cyber security to a strategic imperative but at a pace that lags behind their desire to adopt digital technologies to drive innovation. To illustrate, we take a look at the current and desired states of cyber security in healthcare through the lenses of data sharing, vendor management, and medical device implementation. We conclude with our guidance on where organizations should be focusing their efforts.

"The value of digital assets across healthcare is skyrocketing--as are the risks and costs of regulatory non-compliance, reputational damage, and related cyber and privacy breaches."
-- L iam Walsh, Principal, Healthcare & Life Sciences Line of Business Leader, KPMG Advisory

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 1

1. Sharing and analyzing data

No matter what happens in the regulatory environment, patient data will remain a critical asset in the healthcare industry. With freeflowing data, providers can focus resources on at-risk patients, improve outcomes, decrease complications, maximize the use of evidence-based protocols, engage in risksharing arrangements from accountable care organizations to payer/provider partnerships, and much more.

And yet, there is a dark side to this transformation. As data sharing occurs beyond an organization's walls, there are cyber-criminals poised to steal valuable PHI. In fact, 47 percent of healthcare firms have had a HIPAA-related security violation or breach in the past two years. This is not surprising, given the widely known fact that medical data is worth at least 10 times as much as financial data on the dark web black market.
As illustrated by our survey findings below, organizations need to elevate data-protection and cyber-security measures to the same level as their knowledge of risks. Those that fail to do so could be subject to immeasurable financial and reputational damage.

Healthcare organizations place data sharing at the top of their list of perceived vulnerabilities

External bad actors seen as 2x as threatening as internal ones

Sharing data with third parties

63%

External attacker

72%

Internet-enabled devices not fully controlled by IT

59%

Phishing-introduced malware

55%

Lack of resources/budget for effective security programs

52%

Third-party undetected vulnerability

43%

External attackers Employee breaches/theft
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

50% 27%

Internal bad actor
Undetected vulnerability in a system configuration or non-ITcontrolled device
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

34% 31%

2 IHnetearltohpcearraebailnityd cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

And yet, there is room for improvement in healthcare's cyber-security investments:
52% are relying upon cyber insurance to protect their organizations in the event of a cyber-attack
43%have not increased cyber-security budgets despite recent high-profile breaches
42%do not plan to increase their cyber-security spending in the next year
34%have not invested in information security at all in the last year

WHAT TO DO NOW: To get value from data, make cyber security an urgent priority
"Healthcare runs on thin margins, often just two to four percent. So, when CIOs are told that addressing cyber-risk will take a much larger investment, the reaction, increasingly, is to simply resign themselves to accepting greater risk. That's not the right answer.
"Yes, top resources in cyber security do not come cheap. But healthcare is only now in the beginning phases of becoming one of the most data-intensive industries imaginable, which makes it one of the most susceptible to cyberrisks. The investments will hit margins. But the industry as a whole needs to revisit core processes to balance getting value out of data with minimizing risk ­ starting yesterday."
-- Michael Ebert, Partner, KPMG Cyber-Security Services

2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 3

2. Choosing vendors

Healthcare organizations are increasingly seeking vendor partnerships that will help them provide innovative services to patients. However, vendors delivering everything from EHR to revenue cycle software increasingly handle sensitive patient data. To minimize cyber-risks, provider organizations need to be vigilant about ensuring that these vendors have impeccable records. That means no HIPAA violations and an unwavering commitment to cyber-security and privacy methods that align with the provider organizations' standards.
As the survey data to the right shows, the frequency and methods of assessment providers are using with vendors are encouraging. In fact, 42 percent are conducting assessment on a continuous or monthly basis. However, it is of concern that nearly half of provider organizations surveyed would not re-evaluate a vendor relationship due to a cyber-security vulnerability.

Frequency of vendor assessment

Continuously

14%

Monthly

28%

Quarterly

39%

Annually 11%

Not certain 11%
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

4 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Methods of assessment

Right to audit provisions

66%

None

Cyber-event driving a change in vendor relationship
47%

SOC 2/HITRUST certification

43%

Frequent HIPAA issues

25%

Survey of third parties

40% Malware attack

24%

Contract with unlimited liability

37%

Insufficient safeguards over protected information

22%

Analysis of publicly available information

32% Ransomware attack

7%

2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 5

3. Addressing medical device security

Wireless, sensor-based medical devices are viewed as one of the most significant innovations in healthcare. They allow seamless patient management, efficient communication, and early intervention. And yet, these devices have the potential to be both a blessing and a curse. From harming patients with device tampering, to using a medical device as an entryway to a hospital's network, to gaining inappropriate access to sensitive information, cyber-criminals see opportunities in these increasingly ubiquitous devices.
When it comes to the new generation of software-enabled medical devices, the entire manufacturer and provider

ecosystem must work together to strike a balance between strong cyber-security measures on the one hand, and the ability to treat patients rapidly in an emergency and improve their health outcomes over time on the other.
Although our survey results should spark some optimism when it comes to organizations' willingness to collaborate and perform regular security testing, there is still room for improvement when it comes to establishing formal programs. Despite the fact that more than 77 percent of healthcare organizations have seen a device breach in recent years, most are more focused on identifying an attack after it has taken place than on managing risks proactively. Preventive measures are particularly critical with older medical devices, even if they have been retrofitted with more modern cybersecurity capabilities.

Collaborating with medical device manufacturers

Security testing methods

A great deal or a fair amount

56% 66%

Security hardening standards

71%

Vulnerability scanning

67%

Not much or not at all

44% 34%

Network segmentation

65%

Software and firmware

64%

Configuration management database

64%

Providers

Payers

2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

Penetration testing
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

48%

6 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Organizations need to find a balance
87%can
identify a cyber-event
Only 59%
manage risk proactively
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

WHAT TO DO NOW: Provide input to device manufacturers in the design stage
"Healthcare has been working with connected devices for many, many years; they were an early adopter. But that can be a doubleedged sword. Now, so many in healthcare are burdened with older processes and technologies. The legacy systems that once conferred early advantage and benefits are now making it more difficult for them to address emerging cyber-risks.
"Partnering with device manufacturers on risk mitigation during the technology development stage is critical to safely using innovative medical devices to treat patients."
-- P hil Lageschulte, Partner, Emerging Technology Risk Network Leader, KPMG Advisory

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 7

4. Creating a balanced cyber-security program

Formal processes and continuous technology assessment are critical to cyber security. However, organizations should remember that people issues cannot be an afterthought. In fact, technologies are only as good as the people and processes put in place to manage and monitor them.
As the survey data in the following pages illustrates, there is room for improvement in both the process and the technology approaches to cyber security. However, it is of the greatest concern that only 24 percent of healthcare organizations are making investments in staff. This is a far cry from the 82 percent focused on stronger processes and the 79 percent investing in more sophisticated technology protections, such as encryption and firewalls.

Cyber-security investments

Stronger policies/controls

82%

Advanced technology

79%

Governance
Managed services

49% 47%

Consulting

41%

Hardware 28%

Processes

Staff 24%
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

In the overwhelming majority of cases, healthcare organizations report they have the right processes in place to battle cyber-attacks after they've occurred. And, there has been a significant commitment to investigative and forensic cyber programs. It is of concern, however, that most of these efforts are reactive, as opposed to preventive measures taken before vulnerable technologies are put in place.

Reactive measures
Incident response plan Security operations center (SOC)

95% 85%

8 Healthcare and cyber security

Business continuity plan

82%

Internal and external investigative and forensic resources
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

43%

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

WHAT TO DO NOW: Transition from a reactive to a proactive defense
"Organizations have become a bit complacent about the real consequences of cyber-threats. Addressing risk with reactive forensic measures doesn't protect patients. Senior management must foster a culture of cyber security that is intertwined with innovation. And the message must come from the top that cyber security--just like innovation-- is part of everyone's job description."
-- Mark Johnson, Managing Director, KPMG Cyber-Security Services

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 9

Creating a balanced program (continued)
Technology
In healthcare, a great deal of the technology that facilitates innovation, such as electronic health records, the Cloud and clinical-decision making tools, also introduce the most risk. Armed with awareness of these new potential attack vectors, bad actors are increasing their focus on healthcare organizations and expanding their methods of infiltration. Although implementing advanced technologies is critical to growth in healthcare, it is of the utmost importance that organizations prioritize and address vulnerabilities before new technologies are integrated.

Perceived risk of new innovations:

53% Computer physician order entry/EHRs
53% Software 49% Cloud computing 46% ASP apps

38% Clinical decisionmaking tools
27% Clinical diagnostic hardware
25% Cloud services 22% Mobile devices
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

10 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Methods of attacks
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

72% 47% 32%

Malware

Internal

Ransomware

theft/negligence

WHAT TO DO NOW: Educate yourself on where the greatest IT risks lie
"Healthcare finds itself in a very dangerous period with regard to cyber-risks. Over the past few years, the focus has been on electronic health records, in many cases draining resources and investment from broader IT and cyber-security efforts. Recent findings from the federal Healthcare Cyber Security Taskforce support KPMG's perspective that IT investments are missing the mark on cyber while remaining overly focused on EHRs.
"Meanwhile, bad actors have been continuously improving their own craft. So, it would not be surprising if the number and severity of assaults and breaches reaches a high point. Organizations need to educate themselves on where the greatest risks lie."
-- Michael Ebert, Partner, KPMG Cyber-Security Services

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 11

Creating a balanced program (continued)
People
Healthcare organizations are aware that internal staff present significant risks. More than half of the organizations surveyed have seen a data breach resulting from an employee falling prey to a phishing scam, and more than a third have had information stolen from internal databases by a disgruntled employee. Training on prevention and detection would help mitigate these internal risks. And yet, 36 percent do not have a chief information security officer (CISO) and, as illustrated below, most are not providing cyber-security training on a regular basis.
Frequency of cyber-security training

Origination of data loss or system compromise
55%have seen
an employee faling
prey to phishing scam

As needed

14%

36%

On a quarterly
basis

34%

60%

On an annual
basis

34%

60%

Providers

Payers

2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

34%have seen
theft from secured database by internal bad actor
2017 KPMG/Forbes Insights Cyber-Security Survey

12 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

WHAT TO DO NOW: Put a laser focus on staff training
"The healthcare industry depends on people: skilled doctors, well-trained nurses, visionary administrators, and responsive support personnel. Relegating staff issues to a sidebar in the cyber-security discussion is a mistake. Organizations must take a coordinated approach involving implementation of the latest cyber technologies, continuously re-imagined policies and procedures, and regular training of staff at all levels. Shortchanging any one of these elements raises the risk of unimaginable damage to an organization's reputation and ability to attract and serve patients."
-- D ion Sheidy, U.S. Healthcare Advisory Leader

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 13

Conclusion: Building a cyber-security-focused culture

14 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

The healthcare industry is evolving toward a true value-

Organizations who ignore this reality are opening themselves up to unfathomable damage to their reputations, their finances and even their viability.

based system, seeking to elevate From our perspective, a mindset shift must occur

so that cyber security is viewed as an enabler of

both individual and population

innovation. Whether organizations are focused on

health outcomes, and assuming

internal risks, risks associated with partners and vendors, or risks arising from insufficient people,

responsibility for complex quality technology and procedural resources, addressing

measures. This requires digital

cyber security should be inseparable from pursuing growth.

technologies that allow data to "Many organizations believe they can address cyber

flow freely. However, for every

security through a focus on technology alone,"

step forward organizations take,

concludes Liam Walsh. "However, if they are going to pursue an aggressive innovation agenda, it's

cyber-criminals are progressing right alongside them with ever more aggressive means

equally important to create a pervasive culture of cyber security, and that starts with people.
"More than a third of healthcare organizations don't even have a CISO. You can have great technology

of system infiltration and data theft.

for detection and response, but, if you don't have the right people in place, empowered and engaged, organizations cannot correctly calibrate processes

and focus efforts on the right risks and assets.

"Just as the most successful healthcare leaders are weaving innovation into the fabric of their organizations, a cyber-security mindset must be equally entrenched. Pursuing disruptive innovation without cyber security is like tightrope walking without a net."

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 15

Methodology

This cyber-security report is based on two separate surveys: one for healthcare payers and providers and a second for life sciences, which includes pharmaceutical makers, biopharma and medical device makers. A total of 200 executives were polled, 100 from each from these two core groups. Though many of the questions were asked of both sectors, others are unique to either the individual healthcare or life sciences samples. The survey data was analyzed by KPMG and fielded by Forbes Insights.

Healthcare Sector (100 executives)

50

50

Life Sciences Sector (100 executives)

50

50

50

50

50

50

1 Payer 1 Provider
Title (200 executives)
20 30
20 30
22
29 22 1 Chief Technology Officer 1 Chief Information O2ff9icer 1 Chief Information Security Officer 1 Chief Security Officer

1 Biopharma/pharma 1 Medical devices

Annual Revenue (200 executives)

17

13

17 30

13 40

30

40

1 Over $10 billion 1 $5 billion to under $10 billion 1 $2 billion to under $5 billion 1 $500 million to under $2 billion

16 Healthcare and cyber security

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

How KPMG can help
KPMG's Cyber-Security Services practice assists organizations in transforming their security, privacy and business continuity controls into business- and innovation-enabling platforms. We view security as a process, not a solution. Therefore, safeguarding IT networks and sensitive data from electronic attack should allow organizations to take control of uncertainty and turn risk into advantage. In particular, our clients are able to take cyber security to the next level and use it as a means to transform the enterprise.
Our teams have significant on-the-ground credentials in the cyber-security space, from pre-breach to post-breach, having been retained by some of the world's largest organizations in life sciences, healthcare and other industries. Our work runs the gamut from strategy and governance, to large-scale security transformation programs, to a full range of cyberrisk and response services, including on-demand malicious code analysis, host- and enterprise-based forensics, network forensics, threat intelligence, and expert testimony.
KPMG Cyber Response Services professionals have experience working on all forms of cyber-crime, including insider threats, data breaches, hacktivism, and advanced persistent threat intrusions. On top of this foundation, KPMG has developed a proprietary cyber-security process refined through real-world experience and a focus on actionable results, rules of evidence, and intensive on-going security testing.

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Healthcare and cyber security 17

Contact us
Liam A. Walsh Healthcare & Life Sciences Line of Business Leader, KPMG Advisory KPMG LLP 773-230-0171 lawalsh@kpmg.com
Michael Ebert Partner, KPMG Cyber-Security Services KPMG LLP 267-256-1686 mdebert@kpmg.com
Mark Johnson Managing Director, KPMG Cyber-Security Services KPMG LLP 615-248-5548 mmjohnson@kpmg.com

Dion Sheidy U.S. Healthcare Advisory Leader KPMG LLP 615-248-5519 dsheidy@kpmg.com
Phil Lageschulte Partner, Emerging Technology Risk Network Leader, KPMG Advisory KPMG LLP 312-665-5380 pjlageschulte@kpmg.com

To learn more about our Healthcare & Life Sciences practice and capabilities, visit us at www.kpmg.com/us/healthcarelifesciences

Some or all of the services described herein may not be permissible for KPMG audit clients and their affiliates.
©2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative("KPMG International"), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.
The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International.
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act upon such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation.

kpmg.com/socialmedia

