SCOPE

THE RADICATI GROUP, INC.
A TECHNOLOGY MARKET RESEARCH FIRM WWW.RADICATI.COM TEL. 650 322-8059
Endpoint Security Market, 2017-2021

This study provides an analysis of the business Endpoint Security market in 2017 and its potential growth over the next four years. It offers a detailed analysis of worldwide market trends, market size and growth forecasts, market share by vendor, vendor products and strategies, and more.
o The Endpoint Security market is comprised of solutions that secure all endpoints in organizations, protecting against the myriad of threats that exist in today's digital world. These threats can include viruses, malware, data loss, inbound network intrusion attempts, and much more.
o Solutions in this market can be deployed in multiple form factors, including software, appliances, cloud services, as well as hybrid solutions.
o This report focuses exclusively on business endpoint security solutions. It does not include consumer endpoint security solutions.
o Government organizations are considered "corporate organizations" for the purposes of this report.
All market numbers, such as market size, forecasts, installed base, and any financial information presented in this study represent worldwide figures, unless otherwise indicated. All pricing numbers are expressed in $USD.

EUROPE: LONDON NW3 5JY · TEL. +44 (0)20 7794 4298

Email: admin@radicati.com

http://www.radicati.com

Endpoint Security Market, 2017-2021 ­ Executive Summary
METHODOLOGY
The information and analysis in this report is based on primary research conducted by The Radicati Group, Inc. Our proprietary methodology combines information derived from three principal sources:
a. Our Worldwide Database which tracks user population, seat count, enterprise adoption and IT use from 1993 onwards.
b. Surveys conducted on an on-going basis in all market areas which we cover.
c. Market share, revenue, sales and customer demand information derived from vendor briefings.
Forecasts are based on historical information as well as our in-depth knowledge of market conditions and how we believe markets will evolve over time.
Finally, secondary research sources have also been used, where appropriate, to cross-check all the information we collect. These include company annual reports and other financial disclosures, industry trade association material, published government statistics and other published sources.
Our research processes and methodologies are proprietary and confidential.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

· Endpoint Security Solutions are appliances, software, cloud services, and hybrid solutions that help secure and manage endpoints for business organizations of all sizes. Endpoint security solutions provide antivirus and malware protection, web security, email security, firewall functionality, and much more. Protected endpoints include desktop computers, laptops, and a myriad of other computing devices, such as mobile phones and tablets, servers, virtual desktops and servers, removable disk drives or USB devices, credit card readers, and more.

· Guarding against malware is the most fundamental aspect of an endpoint security solution.

There is a broad range of different types of malware in the digital world, often created with

the idea of financial gain. Trojans, spyware, and other forms of malware can all be written to

Copyright Ó October 2017 The Radicati Group, Inc. Reproduction Prohibited

2

Endpoint Security Market, 2017-2021 ­ Executive Summary
gain access to credit card numbers, passwords, and other financial or sensitive information. Sometimes, however, malware is simply designed to disrupt and take down a network without any direct financial gain.
· While in the past all vendors offered on-premises endpoint security solutions and some vendors also offered cloud-based options, today all vendors offer cloud-based endpoint security solutions and some also offer on-premises options. This is an important change as the market continues to shift to cloud-based solutions for security as well as for all types of computing.
· Advanced Threat Protection is increasingly being added through the integration of endpoint protection solutions with network wide threat intelligence, which correlates information across all security solutions (i.e. endpoints, web, email, firewalls, and more). Advanced realtime threat protection includes the use of reputation networks, threat intelligence management, sandboxing, forensic analysis and other techniques to help identify, correlate and block potential threats.
· Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) is the ability to continuously monitor endpoints and network events, in order to detect internal or external attacks and enable rapid response. EDR solutions were once considered "next generation" endpoint security solutions, as they do not rely on traditional signature-based protection. Today, some vendors offer exclusively EDRbased solutions while nearly all vendors of traditional endpoint protection solutions have added EDR capabilities to their solutions, effectively blurring the line between traditional and next-generation endpoint solutions.
· The worldwide market for business Endpoint Security solutions is expected to grow in revenues from $5.2 billion in 2017, to over $8.0 billion by 2021. An annual growth rate of 12%.

Copyright Ó October 2017 The Radicati Group, Inc. Reproduction Prohibited

3

Endpoint Security Market, 2017-2021 ­ Executive Summary

Endpoint Security - Revenue Forecast, 2017-2021

$9,000 $8,000 $7,000 $6,000 $5,000 $4,000 $3,000 $2,000 $1,000
$0

$5,200 2017

$5,980 2018

$6,757 2019

$7,433 2020

$8,028 2021

Figure 1: Endpoint Security Revenue Forecast, 2017 ­ 2021

To view the complete Table of Contents for this report, visit our website at www.radicati.com.

Copyright Ó October 2017 The Radicati Group, Inc. Reproduction Prohibited

4

