IRAM2
Managing information risk is a business essential
As information risks and cyber security threats increase, organisations need to move away from reacting to incidents toward predicting and preventing them. Developing a robust mechanism to assess and treat information risk throughout your enterprise is a business essential.
The ISF solution: IRAM2, a methodology to meet today's challenges
IRAM2 helps information risk practitioners, as well as other risk, business and technology leaders to:
1. Apply a simple, practical, yet rigorous approach: Focus on simplicity and practicality, while embedding rigour throughout the assessment process. This enables consistent results and a depth of analysis that enhances business decision making.
2. Speak a common language: Provide a common vocabulary and framework, enabling information risk practitioners and management to form a unified view of information risk across different areas of the business, and better integrate into enterprise risk management.
3. Focus on the business perspective: Guide information risk practitioners' analysis so that information risk is assessed from the perspective of the business. The end result is a risk profile that reflects a view of information risk in business terms.
4. Obtain a greater coverage of risks: Enable a broader and more comprehensive risk coverage, thereby reducing the chance that a significant risk will be overlooked.
5. Focus on the most significant risks: Allow key business and technology stakeholders to obtain a clear picture of where to focus resources, in order to deal with information risks that are most significant to the organisation.
6. Engage with key stakeholders: Empower information risk practitioners to engage with key business, risk and technology stakeholders in an organised and enterprise-aware manner.

IRAM2 The next generation in assessing information risk

The IRAM2 risk assessment methodology is set out in six phases. Each phase details the steps and key activities required to achieve the phase objectives, as well as identifying the key information risk factors and outputs.

A
Scoping

B
Business Impact Assessment

C
Threat Profiling

D
Vulnerability Assessment

E
Risk Evaluation

F
Risk Treatment

A
Scoping

Provide a business-centric view of risk

Business Process
1

Business Process
2

Input

Processing

Output

Application

Application

Server

Database

Server

Asset Management

Change Management

Capacity Management

Incident Management

IRAM2 provides guidance for scoping information risk assessments across both the business and technology. Risk practitioners use this phase to provide an integrated view of risk from the business service layer down to the technology infrastructure.

B
Business Impact Assessment

Assess realistic and worst-case business impact scenarios

IRAM2 provides guidance for identifying and assessing different business impact categories. Risk practitioners use this phase to determine the potential business impact should information assets or systems be compromised.

Business information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Business information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Business information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Worst -case

Input

Processing

Output

Business information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx
Technology information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Application 1

Server 1

Database

Business information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx
Technology information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Business information assets:
· xxx · xxx · xxx

Technology information assets: · xxx · xxx · xxx

Realistic

C
Threat Profiling

Understand and model threats
IRAM2 provides guidance for performing a pragmatic assessment of the information threat landscape. Risk practitioners use this phase to identify and profile key threats across different groups by determining associated threat events.

Threat Groups 1 Adversarial 2 Accidental 3 Environmental

·T·Ch·Ca·Crop·Ceo·mIauanmMbltmttiepoulAiinetttrtiyemttvteraenitbnicoutentes · ·O·PrSriigevviinleergitey

Power failure

Flood

Individual Hacker

Competitor

Organised Crime
Hacking group

Threat Events ··PSheissshioinnghacking ···F·MRlUoeiossscedooriunnergrcrgeourdr(eaaptcilcoeintdioenntal)

D
Vulnerability Assessment

Understand how well your environment/ systems can resist threats
IRAM2 provides guidance for performing an assessment of vulnerabilities that influence the likelihood of a threat event being successful. Risk practitioners use this phase to examine the key factor that affects vulnerability levels, the strength of controls (i.e. design and operational effectiveness).

Example threat events
Exploit vulnerabilities in an organisation's information systems
Unauthorised monitoring and/or modification of communications
Loss of information systems
Software malfunction (internally produced software)
Power failure or fluctuation
Flooding

Example components Component A Component B
Component C
Component D
Component E

Control Control name reference

Control effectiveness

Control strength

CTL01 CTL03 CTL04 CTL05
CTL06 CTL07 CTL10 CTL11 CTL18

Secure network design Event logging and monitoring IDS/IPS Secure standardised system builds Wireless network security Security awareness Physical security Encryption (communications) Security testing

Effective

Low

Partially effective

Ineffective

Effective

Effective Partially effective Partially effective Partially effective Ineffective

Information Security Forum · IRAM2

E
Risk Evaluation

Evaluate risk against your organisation's risk appetite
IRAM2 provides pragmatic guidance to help evaluate risks following the business impact assessment, threat profiling and vulnerability assessment stages. Risk practitioners use this phase to map the likelihood of successful of threat events to the most appropriate business impact scenario and to link this into an organisation's wider enterprise risk framework.

Residual likelihood

12 4

1 2
7 1
6 15
6

Residual business impact

Key 10+ risks 5-9 risks 3-4 risks 1-2 risks

F
Risk Treatment

Develop pragmatic risk treatment plans
IRAM2 provides practical guidance for treating identified information risks. Risk practitioners use this phase to explore different approaches to treating information risk (i.e. mitigation, transference, avoidance and acceptance).

Initial mitigation
INHERENT RISK

Further mitigation

Avoidance

Risk Appetite

Risk Accepted
RESIDUAL RISK, ACCEPTED

IRAM2 · Information Security Forum

Where next?
IRAM2 is a simple, practical yet rigorous business essential that helps ISF Members identify, analyse and treat information risk throughout the organisation. The Information Risk Assessment Methodology describes the following: · Risk fundamentals: Explains information risk and how it relates to the wider
discipline of enterprise risk management · People and engagement: Identifies the people, roles, skills and experience
that are vital for effective information risk management and for the application of IRAM2 · IRAM2 Phases: Provides an overview of the methodology as well as a comprehensive description of the key steps, inputs and outputs accompanied by guidance for effective deployment. The report also contains detailed supplementary material and further guidance to assist the information risk practitioner. For example, a common threat list, a threat event catalogue and sample control guidance are included. IRAM2 is supported by an implementation space on the ISF Member website, ISF Live, which contains a facilitated forum for Members to discuss related issues and solutions, along with additional resources including a webcast and presentations. The IRAM2 report is available free of charge to ISF Members, and can be downloaded from the ISF Member website www.isflive.org. Non-Members can purchase the report by contacting Steve Durbin at steve.durbin@securityforum.org.
Contact
For more information, please contact: Steve Durbin, Managing Director US Tel: +1 (347) 767 6772 UK Tel: +44 (0)20 3289 5884 UK Mobile: +44 (0)7785 953 800 Email: steve.durbin@securityforum.org Web: www.securityforum.org
About the ISF Founded in 1989, the Information Security Forum (ISF) is an independent, not-for-profit association of leading organisations from around the world. It is dedicated to investigating, clarifying and resolving key issues in cyber, information security and risk management by developing best practice methodologies, processes and solutions that meet the business needs of its Members. ISF Members benefit from harnessing and sharing in-depth knowledge and practical experience drawn from within their organisations and developed through an extensive research and work programme. The ISF provides a confidential forum and framework, which ensures that Members adopt leading-edge information security strategies and solutions. And by working together, Members avoid the major expenditure required to reach the same goals on their own.
Disclaimer This document has been published to provide general information only. It is not intended to provide advice of any kind. Neither the Information Security Forum nor the Information Security Forum Limited accept any responsibility for the consequences of any use you make of the information contained in this document.
Reference: ISF 14 11 02 Copyright © 2014 Information Security Forum Limited. All rights reserved. Classification: Public

