Kaspersky for Business
Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business
Designed and built by the industry's leading security experts, Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business delivers multi-layered security against known, unknown and advanced threats. Our unique combination of big data of threat intelligence with machine learning and human expertise enables agile, responsive protection against any kind of threat -- regardless of the platform and with minimal management overheads. Learn more on kaspersky.com

Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business | Select
Agile cybersecurity for businesses of any size
Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business Select delivers powerful multi-layered protection against all types of cyber threats in one easy-to-manage, scalable solution. Application, device and web controls provide management flexibility without the resource overheads while mobile management features extend true, agile cybersecurity to the mobile platform.

PROTECTION FROM THE CYBER THREATS YOUR BUSINESS FACES

Delivering security with agility and confidence

True cybersecurity addresses real cyberattacks with agility and confidence. It combines the best of human expertise with big data threat intelligence and machine learning to provide HuMachineTM intelligence capable of defending against any type of threat your business faces.

Proactive, targeted protection

Best-in-class anti-malware combined with Automatic Exploit Prevention and real-time cloud-assisted security intelligence from Kaspersky Security Network. Malicious actions and destructive behavior patterns indicative of malware are blocked by System Watcher while Host-based Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) with Personal Firewall helps secure and control application and network activity.

WIDE-RANGING CONTROL AND MANAGEABILITY

Easy to manage application control

Application Control with Dynamic Whitelisting empowers IT administrators to allow, block or regulate applications, including operating `Default Deny' in a live or test environment. Application Privilege Control can restrict application permissions to access or change specific files and resources.

Comprehensive oversight and administrative efficiency

Kaspersky's web control tools let you set up Internet access policies and monitor Internet usage against a broad range of preset or customizable categories. Controls can be aligned with Active Directory to help administrate and set policies.

Efficient device control of all devices on your network

Granular data policies controlling the connection of removable storage and other peripheral devices can be set, scheduled and enforced, using masks for simultaneous deployment to multiple devices. Access of applications to audio and video recording devices is also controlled. Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business also logs all `delete and copy' operations performed on removable USB devices, and manages user rights for file `read and write' operations on CD/DVDs.

FILE SERVER SECURITY

Reliable, highperformance anti-malware and anti-ransomware protection

Managed together with endpoint security through Kaspersky Security Center and supporting all major server platforms with minimal impact on performance.

1

MOBILE SECURITY

Multi-layered real-time mobile device protection

Delivered by advanced, proactive and cloud-assisted technologies. Unauthorized access to corporate data is prevented and remote administration enabled in the event of loss or theft.

GRANULAR SECURITY MANAGEMENT

Centralized security management and control

Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business Select includes a single, highly integrated management console ­ Kaspersky Security Center ­ for centralized control of security settings for every decide on the network. Administration and management is highly intuitive and efficient, allowing administrators to set up policies according to specific requirements, or hit the ground running by using preconfigured policies developed by Kaspersky Lab experts. Role-based Access Control allows administrative responsibilities to be assigned across complex networks.

Add-on additional functionality when needed

For extended manageability, efficiency and security, vulnerability assessment and patch management features ­ as well as client management tools ­ are now available for Kaspersky endpoint Security for Business Select users as an add-on. Kaspersky Lab's encryption technology is also now available as an addon. This technology protects valuable data from accidental loss, device theft and targeted malware attacks.

2

Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business | Advanced
Combining IT security and IT efficiency
Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business Advanced combines multi-layered security with extended client management features and powerful control tools to deliver agile cybersecurity for businesses of all sizes. The single, integrated security and systems management console drives efficiency while reducing complexity.

MINIMIZE THE RISK OF ATTACK

Enhanced security

Automated OS and application vulnerability detection and prioritization, combined with rapid, automated distribution of patches and updates, enhances security while boosting administrative efficiency and reducing IT management complexity. Automated software scanning enables rapid detection of outdated software that may pose a security risk and needs updating

Rapid detection and remediation of vulnerabilities

Automated vulnerability scanning enables rapid vulnerability detection, prioritization and remediation. Vulnerability scanning can be delivered automatically or be scheduled according to the administrator's requirements.

BOOST IT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCIES

Time-saving software distribution and troubleshooting

Remote software deployment and application and OS update are available on-demand or as scheduled, including Wake-on-LAN support. Remote troubleshooting and efficient software distribution is supported through Multicast technology.

Easy Operating System deployment

Effortless creation, storage and deployment of OS golden images from a central location, including UEFI support.

Real-time monitoring with SIEM Integration

Integration with security information and event management (SIEM) products such as IBM® QRadar and HP ArcSight ensures businesses get the real-time monitoring data they need.

SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUSINESS DATA

Powerful data protection and support

Full Disk Encryption (FDE) for the physical sectors of a disk and File-Level Encryption (FLE) for secure sharing of data ensure the safety of sensitive business data across the network. For additional security when a file is encrypted, the original, unencrypted file can be wiped from the hard drive. Portable mode encryption and the encryption of removable media are also available.

3

Flexible, simplified user login

Pre-boot authentication (PBA) for added security includes optional `single signon' for user transparency while two-factor authentication via smartcards and tokens is also supported

Unique, integrated policy creation

Unique integration of encryption with application and device controls provides an additional layer of security and administrative ease

Improve hardware compatibility and minimize user impact

Hard drive encryption on Windows devices can be managed with Microsoft BitLocker technology. Microsoft BitLocker management enables use of OSembedded encryption technology to improve hardware compatibility and minimize user impact

Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business ­ ADVANCED also includes all components of the SELECT tier.

4

Kaspersky Total Security for Business

Ultimate security for every aspect of your business
Kaspersky Total Security for Business delivers ultimate security for businesses of all sizes. Powerful control tools and extended systems, vulnerability and patch management capabilities are supported by big data threat intelligence, machine learning and human expertise to enable a complete, fully integrated security platform that can handle even the most complex environments and protect your business against all types of cyber threats.

COMPREHENSIVE MAIL SERVER SECURITY
With support for a wide range of mail servers, our mail server security technologies protect mail traffic and groupware servers against malware and spam using cloud-based, real-time updates for exceptional capture rates and minimal false positives. Kaspersky Total Security for Business can also be used to set up a dedicated mail gateway. DLP functionality for Microsoft Exchange is available separately.

PROTECT WEB GATEWAYS

Secure traffic

Our security technologies deliver protection for traffic flowing through the most popular, Windows-based or Linux-based gateways, automatically removing malicious and potentially hostile programs that appear in HTTP(S), FTP, SMTP and POP3 traffic.

Protect mail

Kaspersky Total Security for Business protects corporate mail flowing through Microsoft Forefront TMG or Microsoft ISA Server.

High detection rates without degrading performance

With intelligent, optimized scanning, plus load balancing, Kaspersky Total Security for Business delivers high detection rates without any significant impact on system performance.

EMPOWER SECURE COLLABORATION
Excellent for efficiency gains, collaboration tools need protection too. Our security for SharePoint platforms includes anti-malware, content filtering and file filtering, to help your business enforce its collaboration policies and prevent inappropriate content being stored on your corporate network. Content-aware Data Loss Prevention is available as an optional extra.

Kaspersky Total Security for Business also includes all components of the ADVANCED and SELECT tiers.

5

True Cybersecurity: It's In Our DNA
Kaspersky Lab delivers the most powerful anti-malware on the market by using the world-leading Security Intelligence that is built into our DNA and influences everything we do -- and how we do it. We're an independent company and that allows us to be more agile, think differently and act faster.
· Our expertise is from the top down ­ starting with our CEO, Eugene Kaspersky.
· We're a technology-driven company -- we develop and perfect all our own core technologies in-house, so our products are more stable and more efficient. We are committed to our own R&D.
· Our Global Research & Analysis Team (GReAT) operates at the heart of Kaspersky Lab, leading the way in anti-malware research and innovation. This elite group of security experts have uncovered many of the world's most dangerous malware threats and targeted attacks.
· We're a trusted partner of global anti-cybercrime agencies, including INTERPOL and Europol.
· We provide the best possible outcome for customers ­ validated by independent test results. Kaspersky Lab is the world's most tested, most awarded security.
· We protect over 400 million users in 140 countries around the world; 20 million Kaspersky Lab products are activated every year.
· The most widely respected industry analysts ­ including Gartner, Inc., Forrester Research and International Data Corporation (IDC) -- rate us as a Leader within many key IT security categories. 2017 marks Kaspersky Lab's sixth year as a "Leader" in Gartner's Magic Quadrant.
· Our engine is trusted and used by leading global technology brands Microsoft, Cisco, Juniper, TrustWave and more.

www.kaspersky.com
© 2017 AO Kaspersky Lab. All rights reserved. Registered trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners.

Expert Analysis
HuMachineTM

Machine Learning

Big Data / Threat Intelligence

