Cloud Access Governance & Intelligence
for Data, Infrastructure & Applications

IDENTITY IS THE NEW PERIMETER
IT is undergoing a huge transformation as enterprises increasingly adopt the Cloud to meet business demands for elasticity, flexibility, and scalability. With hybrid IT becoming a norm, critical enterprise assets are now distributed: sensitive data or critical infrastructure already resides on the Cloud and outside the enterprise's traditional perimeter. The responsibility for appropriate and consistent enforcement of compliance and security controls and policies lies with the enterprise. With each cloud provider offering varying degrees of control over security, identity has become the common thread that binds the security and trust fabric together.
RISK-BASED IDENTITY MANAGEMENT IS THE KEY TO SUCCESS
Identity Governance and Administration (IGA) tools have typically been driven by compliance and automation needs and do not account for large volume and types of identities such as users, devices, business partners, customers, etc. In addition, most IGA tools only understand coarse-grained access and cannot be easily extended to secure data, infrastructure, and fine-grained application entitlements. A sustainable way to implement IGA across Cloud and enterprise in an efficient and effective manner is to take a risk-based approach. Risk is key to determining who has access to critical business functions, PHI/PCI/SOX data, or sensitive/vulnerable workloads. This allows a finite amount of IGA resources to be effectively deployed to secure risky users and risky access.
INTRODUCING SAVIYNT CLOUD ACCESS GOVERNANCE AND INTELLIGENCE
Saviynt delivers the next generation of IGA 2.0 that provides a single pane of glass of users' access across data, infrastructure, and applications that reside on the Cloud or enterprise. Saviynt's Cloud Access Governance and Intelligence platform, delivered either from the Cloud or on-premise, combines intelligent IGA processes with usage and risk analytics.
Saviynt's IGA 2.0 platform strives to provide 3600 of visibility into users' access for security and compliance management and governance by providing insight into:

· Who has access to what ­ implementing purpose-built deep integration connectors for Cloud and enterprise applications/platforms
· What does the access secure ­ identifying what type of data (e.g., PCI, PHI, financial, and sensitive), business functions, and/or infrastructure does the user have access to and what can they perform with that access (e.g., modify, read-only, and delete)
· What are they doing with their access ­ collating and analyzing usage and audit logs from managed platforms, log aggregators, etc.
Saviynt enables enterprises to enforce intelligent and risk-based IGA processes with a modular architecture for securing data, infrastructure and application access for internal and external users.
SAVIYNT IDENTITY GOVERNANCE IS INTELLIGENT
The core Saviynt IGA platform incorporates several unique risk and usage analytics features such as: · Integrated access recommendations ­ derived from the inlier analysis of user's access as compared to peers. These recommendations are made available to the requester as `people like you have access to' while shopping for access. · Usage/activity-based risk decisions ­ arrived at by analyzing users' usage reports (i.e., indicating how often, when, and how the entitlement was used). This decision is then provided to certifiers during access attestation/certification process to make an informed decision. · Policy-based risk decisions ­ analyzed by combining entitlement criticality, access outlier analysis, potential violation of business policies, and/or segregation of duty (SOD) rules. These decisions are included when requests are dynamically routed to approvers to understand the impact if
access is approved.

SAVIYNT INFRASTUCTURE ACCESS GOVERNANCE
Organizations are rapidly migrating workloads (including critical ones) from traditional data centers to IaaS providers, such as AWS and Azure. In addition, they are adopting SDLC processes, such as DevOps and Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD).
DASHBOARD
REAL-TIME PREVENTIVE POLICIES

SAVIYNT DATA ACCESS GOVERNANCE
According to a recent survey, Microsoft Office 365 is one of the most widely adopted Cloud applications. Along with numerous productivity and collaboration benefits, such adoption has the potential for loss of sensitive information if the appropriate security is not implemented.
DASHBOARDS
REAL-TIME PREVENTIVE POLICIES

SAVIYNT APPLICATION ACCESS GOVERNANCE
Saviynt assists enterprises to meet compliance mandates by offering one of the most advanced SOD management solutions while including features, such as a controls library, risk-based access certification, and emergency access management. The platform enables internal audit and security teams to define business rules, identify conflicts/violations, monitor critical transactions, remediate violations, and assess their impact via an intuitive SOD management workbench. With its ability to understand complex entitlement hierarchy independent to each application, Saviynt's solution can perform enterprise-wide cross application SOD analysis. In addition, Saviynt integrates usage analytics to identify actual SOD violations that have been acted upon by users vs. potential SOD violations and helps prioritize remediation measures.
DASHBOARDS

SAVIYNT EXTERNAL ACCESS GOVERNANCE
As enterprises collaborate with multiple business partners to thrive, they often struggle to find the right balance between exposing their internal systems and enforcing security. In most cases, IGA tools do not support the appropriate granularity or scale needed for controlled delegation of millions of users' administration to partners.
EMBRACE CLOUD-FIRST STRATEGY WITH CONFIDENCE
In today's age of hybrid IT, identity is central to securing critical assets on Cloud and Enterprise. Saviynt's Cloud Access Governance and Intelligence solution is:
 Built for Cloud  Intelligent and risk-driven  Unified solution for securing applications, data and infrastructure  Scalable to millions of identities  Managed platform that continuously evolves to changing needs

ABOUT SAVIYNT Saviynt is a leading provider of next generation Identity Governance and Administration solutions for Data, Infrastructure and Critical Applications for the Cloud and Enterprise. Saviynt combines traditional IGA features with advanced usage analytics, data/infrastructure access governance, user behavior analytics, real-time threat detection, and compliance controls to secure organization's critical assets.
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 5777 W Century Blvd, Suite 360 Los Angeles 90045 info@saviynt.com +1 (314) 641-1664 www.saviynt.com
©2015 Saviynt Inc. All rights reserved. Saviynt and the Saviynt logo are registered trademarks of Saviynt Inc. in the USA. All other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective companies.

