The ineffectiveness of signature based defenses has resulted in a wave of security solutions in the category of automated malware analysis, wherein a suspicious file observed at the network boundary or an endpoint is automatically submitted to an isolated environment, called a sandbox. A sandbox detonates (executes) this file, analyzes its behavior and classifies the object as malicious or benign. Automated sandboxes suffer from several limitations.

Evasive Malware
Evasive malware successfully bypass other sandboxes through sleeping, logic-bombs, targeted attacks, and zero-day evasions.

Anti-analysis Malware
Other sandboxes fail to detect malware hiding from a variety of other tools, such as AV, endpoint and debuggers.

Blind Spots
A typical sandbox only monitors interaction of malware with operating system and lacks deep program introspection.

SECONDWRITE TECHNOLOGY
SecondWrite adds another dimension to malware analysis by including a component on deep program analysis at run time, leveraging our unique binary rewriting technology. This pushes the envelope of malware detection.
KEY ADVANTAGES
 Patent-pending university-developed technology.
 Handles all types of evasion:  Zero-day attacks  Sleeping  Useless Code  Logic Bombs  Targeted Attacks
 Captures Indicators of Compromise based on internal program properties:  Internal Program structure  Anti-analysis features  Anti-reverse engineering features.
 95% zero-day detection rate with 1% False positive as compared to 60% detection and 17% false positive in open-source Cuckoo sandbox.

Next Generation Malware Analysis and Detection

Windows Executables

MS Word (.doc and .docx)

Windows DLLs

MS Powerpoint (.ppt and .pptx)

.NET Executables

MS Excel (.xls and .xlsx)

PDF

HTML & URLs

Archives (.zip, .rar, .7z, .iso, .tar,.gz.,.bz2)

Files, Attachments, URLs
SecondWrite sandbox accepts files of varied types shown above

Anti-evasive Technology
A patented technology performs complete code exploration forcing malware to be revealed

Program-level Features
Captures Indicators of compromise such as internal program structure and anti-analysis features.

Easy to use API
Can be easily integrated with malware analysis workflows using programmable APIs

Comprehensive Analysis
Real network traffic,Yara and Suricata rules, detailed process behavior graphs and PCAP files.

Score & Report
Machine learning methods for malware classification. Reports available in JSON or HTML formats.

TRY IT OUT
SecondWrite sandbox is available as a cloud solution or on-premise solution with free, basic and enterprise licenses. It is being used by SOCs, malware analysts, Incidence response professionals, network security vendors, endpoint security vendors, threat intelligence products, and MSSPs .
Sign up for your free license at www.secondwrite.com/sandbox-pricing/ or write to us at info@secondwrite.com

