Data Sheet
Learning Services Implementing Cisco Cybersecurity Operations (SECOPS) v1.0

Overview
The Implementing Cisco Cybersecurity Operations (SECOPS) version 1.0 Cisco® Training on Demand course teaches you to understand how a Security Operations Center (SOC) functions and gives you the introductory-level skills and knowledge needed in this environment. You learn core skills for an SOC analyst at the associate level, understanding basic threat analysis and event correlation, identifying malicious activity, and using a playbook for incident response.
In addition, you gain knowledge on identifying resources for hunting cyber threats, common attack vectors, malicious activity, and patterns of suspicious behavior, and on conducting security incident investigations.
Duration
The SECOPS v1.0 Training on Demand course is a self-paced course that consists of 15 sections of instructor video and text along with interactive activities, 9 hands-on lab exercises, content review questions, and challenge questions.
Target Audience
This course is designed for SOC security analysts and personnel, computer network defense analysts and infrastructure support personnel, future incident responders, Cisco channel partners, and those preparing for the 210-255 SECOPS exam.

© 2017 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public Information.

Page 1 of 4

Objectives
Upon completion of this course, you should be able to:
 Define an SOC and the various job roles in an SOC  Understand SOC infrastructure tools and systems  Learn basic incident analysis for a threat-centric SOC  Explore resources available to assist with an investigation  Explain basic event correlation and normalization  Describe common attack vectors  Learn how to identify malicious activity  Understand the concept of a playbook  Describe and explain an incident response handbook  Define types of SOC metrics  Understand the SOC workflow management system (WMS) and automation
Course Prerequisites
The knowledge and skills necessary before attending this course are:
 Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices, Part 1 (ICND1), Understanding Cisco Cybersecurity Fundamentals (SECFND), Windows operating system, and Cisco IOS® networking and concepts
Course Outline
 Section 1: Defining the Security Operations Center  Section 2: Understanding NSM Tools and Data  Section 3: Understanding Incident Analysis in a Threat-Centric SOC  Section 4: Identifying Resources for Hunting Cyber Threats  Section 5: Understanding Event Correlation and Normalization  Section 6: Identifying Common Attack Vectors  Section 7: Identifying Malicious Activity  Section 8: Identifying Patterns of Suspicious Behavior  Section 9: Conducting Security Incident Investigations  Section 10: Describing the SOC Playbook  Section 11: Understanding the SOC Metrics  Section 12: Understanding the SOC WMS and Automation  Section 13: Describing the Incident Response Plan  Section 14: Appendix A ­ Describing the Computer Security Incident Response Team  Section 15: Appendix B ­ Understanding the use of VERIS

© 2017 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public Information.

Page 2 of 4

Lab Outline
This course contains nine hands-on lab exercises. Representative topology for all labs in the course:

The labs included in this course are:
 Discovery Lab 2.11: Explore Network Security Monitoring Tools  Discovery Lab 3.14: Investigate Hacker Methodology  Discovery Lab 4.11: Hunt Malicious Traffic  Discovery Lab 5.7: Correlate Event Logs, PCAPs, and Alerts of an Attack  Discovery Lab 6.11: Investigate Browser-Based Attacks  Discovery Lab 7.7: Analyze Suspicious DNS Activity  Discovery Lab 8.6: Investigate Suspicious Activity Using Security Onion  Discovery Lab 9.4: Investigate Advanced Persistent Threats  Discovery Lab 10.6 Explore SOC Playbooks
Cisco Capital
Financing to Help You Achieve Your Objectives
Cisco Capital can help you acquire the technology you need to achieve your objectives and stay competitive. We can help you reduce CapEx. Accelerate your growth. Optimize your investment dollars and ROI. Cisco Capital financing gives you flexibility in acquiring hardware, software, services, and complementary third-party equipment. And there's just one predictable payment. Cisco Capital is available in more than 100 countries. Learn more.

© 2017 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public Information.

Page 3 of 4

Printed in USA © 2017 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public Information.

C78-739412-00 08/17 Page 4 of 4

