Cybersecurity Operations Center: Cyber Preparedness and Lesson Learned
AITRI SEMINAR ON NEW TECHNOLOGY RISKS AND CYBER SECURITY, KUALA LUMPUR
14 Feb 2017

Contents
Learning Objectives Introduction What is the CyberSOC (CSOC)? CSOC: Structure and Governance Model CSOC: Operations Metric CSCO: Maturity and Conclusion
@2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

3 4 8 18 21 25
2

Learning Objectives You will learn about...
Cybersecurity Operations
o What a Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC) is and the primary capabilities a CSOC may have
o Typical CSOC organizational structure and Governance aspects of a CSOC, including the core scope and services of a CSOC

@2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

3

@2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

4

@2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

5

Threat Landscape
The cyber threat landscape will continue to deteriorate as the attack surface expands with advances through digital innovation via IoT, consumerisation of enterprise mobility and cloud.

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

Source: http://blogs.cisco.com/ciscoit/cisco-security-intelligence-operations-defense-in-depth

Threat landscape
Watering Hole Attacks

Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS)

Application Layer Attacks

Rogue Update Attacks

Types of Cyber Attacks

Brute Force Attacks

Phishing

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

Zero Day Exploitation

Network Protocol Attacks
Known Vulnerability Exploitation

What Is a CyberSOC (CSOC)?

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

8

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

9

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

10

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

11

Determine the best CSOC Model for YOU

Should we out-source our SOC or should we build an internal capability?

Coverage

A outsourcer will think of things we have not, right?

Capability

If we do, what is the risk? What will we be giving up?
An outsourcer sees other threats (cross industry), can I really build
the capability they have?

How expensive will it be to maintain this capability?

Cost

Out-sourcing a SOC is lower cost, right?

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

Why outsourcing
There are a number of key drivers that lead businesses to look to managed security services.

Budget

Talent
Struggle to recruit and retain talented, skilled
internal resources while minimizing
staffing costs

Continued challenges and constraints on
operational costs and capital expenditures
Why Outsource?

Knowledge
Need for external collaboration and `shared wisdom' to
tackle threats

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

Why in-sourcing
Drivers for in-sourcing security operations

Customization
Monitor and manage what's critical to your
business

Business alignment
Alignment with your industry sector and
risk profile

Why Insource?

Knowledge
Intimate understanding of your organization

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

CSOC Model: insourcing, outsourcing, hybrid

1: Insource
Industry and business alignment
Level one monitoring and management
Maintain and enhance existing use cases

2: Outsource Industry and risk profile alignment

3: Hybrid
Business, industry and risk profile alignment

Level one, two and three monitoring and management

Level one, two and three monitoring and management

Alignment of use cases to evolving Alignment of use cases to evolving

threat landscape

threat landscape

Limited threat intelligence gathering

Proactive Cyber Threat Intelligence Proactive Cyber Threat Intelligence

Resourcing required to operate three shifts

Round the clock monitoring,

Round the clock monitoring,

management and incident response management and incident response

Hardware, build, run and maintain costs

Cloud based service ­ utility based costing

Hardware, build, run and maintain costs

Capex

Opex

Capex and Opex

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

CSOC Capability Model

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

16

CSOC: Structure and Governance Model

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

17

CSOC: Integrated Process Model

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

18

CSOC: Sample Data Flow

https://www.mitre.org/sites/default/files/publications/pr-13-1028-mitre-10-strategies-cyber-ops-center.pdf

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

19

CSOC: Sample Org Chart

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

20

CSOC: Operations Metrics

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

21

Information Security Measurement and Reporting
The following key definitions are used in an information security measurement and reporting program.

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

22

Example Relationship of KRX, KPXs, KPIs and Supporting Metrics

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

23

Example Operational Metrics

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

24

CSOC: Maturity and Conclusion

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

25

Maturation Process of a Successful CSOC

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

26

Business Value of an Advanced Cyber Threat Program
An advanced program that has been designed to protect your business against the threats specific to your organization and industry will allow you to:

© 2017 Deloitte Risk Advisory

27

Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte has in the region of 225,000 professionals, all committed to becoming the standard of excellence. About Deloitte Southeast Asia Deloitte Southeast Asia Ltd ­ a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited comprising Deloitte practices operating in Brunei, Cambodia, Guam, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam ­ was established to deliver measurable value to the particular demands of increasingly intra-regional and fast growing companies and enterprises. Comprising over 270 partners and 7,300 professionals in 25 office locations, the subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Southeast Asia Ltd combine their technical expertise and deep industry knowledge to deliver consistent high quality services to companies in the region. All services are provided through the individual country practices, their subsidiaries and affiliates which are separate and independent legal entities. About Deloitte Malaysia In Malaysia, services are provided by Deloitte Enterprise Risk Services Sdn Bhd and its affiliates.

