The Standard of Good Practice for Information Security 2016
The definitive guide for responding to rapidly evolving threats, technology and compliance.
The Standard of Good Practice for Information Security 2016 (the Standard) provides comprehensive controls and guidance on current and emerging information security topics enabling organisations to respond to the rapid pace at which threats, technology and risks evolve. Implementing the Standard helps organisations to: ­ Identify how regulatory and compliance requirements can be met ­ Respond to rapidly evolving threats, including sophisticated cyber security attacks by using threat intelligence to increase
cyber resilience ­ Be agile and exploit new opportunities ­ while ensuring that associated information risks are managed to acceptable levels.
The latest edition of the Standard includes the introduction of topics such as: Threat Intelligence, Cyber Attack Protection and Industrial Control Systems, as well as, significant enhancement of existing topics including: Information Risk Assessment, Security Architecture and Enterprise Mobility Management.
The Standard, along with the ISF Benchmark; a comprehensive security control assessment tool, provide complete coverage of the topics set out in ISO/IEC 27002:2013, COBIT 5 for Information Security, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, SANS Top 20 Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) version 3.1.

THE STANDARD AS AN ENABLER FOR IMPROVING INFORMATION SECURITY

RESILIENCE
The Standard provides a ready-made framework that can help an organisation to prepare for, manage and respond to major incidents that may have a significant impact on business. The Standard provides extensive coverage of information security topics including those associated with security strategy, incident management, business continuity, cyber resilience and crisis management.
RISK ASSESSMENT
The Standard's current and comprehensive content when combined with the ISF Information Risk Assessment Methodology 2 (IRAM2), can underpin an organisation's risk assessment process of identifying business impacts, assessing key threats and vulnerabilities, and treating information risks. With this set of controls, an organisation can gain efficiency savings and deliver consistent protection in line with their organisational risk appetite.
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
The Standard offers an easy-to-implement solution to ensure that an organisation's supply chain incorporates a risk-based approach to information security. It can also be used as the basis for understanding and assessing the level of information security implemented by external suppliers, including cloud services providers. Used in combination with the ISF Supply Chain Assurance Framework (SCAF), the ISF Supply Chain Information Risk Assurance Process (SCIRAP) and the ISF Benchmark, the Standard enables an organisation to implement protection that is fully aligned with ISO/IEC 27036-3:2013 (covering supplier relationships).

The ISF Standard of Good Practice for Information Security 2016 is the primary reference for information security. Its practical and trusted guidance helps organisations to extract relevant good practice to underpin any new initiative in your information security programme.
The Standard provides complete coverage of the topics set out in ISO/IEC 27002:2013, COBIT 5 for Information Security, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, SANS Top 20 Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) version 3.1.

ISF RESEARCH
An extensive research programme into hot topics in information security. Latest research reports include:
Security Architecture: Navigating complexity
Threat Horizon 2018
Managing the Insider Threat (briefing paper)
Application Security: Bringing order to chaos
Information Security in Smart Cities (briefing paper)
EU Data Protection Regulation (briefing paper)
Engaged Reporting: Fact and fortitude
Threat Horizon 2017
IRAM2: The next generation of assessing information risk
Maturity Model Assessments

BENCHMARK RESULTS
The results of the ISF Benchmark, which provide valuable insights into how information security is applied `on the ground' in Member organisations.
MEMBER INPUT
Input from ISF Members, including workshops, online collaboration on ISF Live, face-to-face meetings, interviews and academy sessions at the ISF Annual World Congress 2015 in Atlanta, USA.

EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENTS
Analysis and coverage of information security-related standards, for example: · ISO/IEC 27001/2 · COBIT 5 for Information Security
and legal and regulatory changes, for example: · European Union General Data
Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) · PCI DSS v3.1

COMPLIANCE
The Standard is an ideal tool to help prepare for ISO/ IEC 27001:2013 certification, and achieve compliance with other relevant standards (e.g., PCI DSS). It is aligned with key information security standards in the ISO/IEC 27000 suite including security governance and supplier relationships. The Standard covers hot topics not found in ISO/IEC 27002 including cyber attack protection, system decommission, enterprise mobility management and industrial control systems.

POLICIES, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
The Standard can be adopted directly as the basis of a new or existing information security policy. It is an effective tool for identifying gaps and reduces the time and effort required to produce security policies, standards and procedures. The harmonisation of internal policies throughout an organisation helps deliver a consistent and balanced level of information protection.

AWARENESS
Adopting the Standard reduces the need to develop security awareness content from scratch. The Standard covers topics that can be used to improve security awareness and achieve expected security behaviour amongst many different audiences across an organisation, including business users, technical staff, senior management, systems developers and IT service providers. It also addresses how information security should be applied in local business environments that typically require tailored awareness activities.
INFORMATION SECURITY ASSESSMENT
The Standard is integrated with the ISF Benchmark, providing detailed or high-level assessments of the strength of information security controls ­ either across an organisation, locally or against your peers (e.g., organisations in the same sector or geographic region). Using the Standard and the ISF Benchmark in conjunction provides meaningful and objective analysis of the true level of security across an organisation that can be reported to executive management and stakeholders.
SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS
The Standard is a complete and up-to-date reference guide for developing new security arrangements or improving existing ones as circumstances change (e.g., as a result of increasing cyber threats, use of cloud computing or reliance on mobile devices in the workplace). The Standard can help organisations to avoid potentially costly incidents, operational impact and damage to brand and reputation. Security assessments based on the Standard provide an accurate representation of the strengths and weaknesses of an organisation's security arrangements.

WHERE NEXT?
The Standard of Good Practice for Information Security 2016 (the Standard) is the most comprehensive and current source of information security controls. The Standard is updated on a biennial basis to reflect the evolving international landscape of information security­related legislation and standards. These updates include the latest findings from the ISF's research programme, input from our Member organisations, trends from the ISF Benchmark and major external developments including new legislation, changes in regulation and the releases of other information security-related standards. Good practice described in the Standard will typically be incorporated into an organisation's business processes, information security policy, risk management and compliance arrangements. Consequently, the Standard is valuable to a range of key individuals or external parties, including Chief Information Security Officers (or equivalent), information security managers, business managers, IT managers and technical staff, internal and external auditors, and IT service providers. Consultancy services from the ISF provide Members and Non-Members with the opportunity to purchase short-term, professional support activities to supplement the implementation of ISF products including the Standard. The Standard is available free of charge to ISF Members, and can be downloaded from the ISF Member website www.isflive.org. Non-Members interested in implementing the Standard or purchasing the report should contact Steve Durbin at steve.durbin@securityforum.org.
CONTACT
For further information contact: Steve Durbin, Managing Director US Tel: +1 (347) 767 6772 UK Tel: +44 (0)20 3289 5884 UK Mobile: +44 (0)7785 953 800 Email: steve.durbin@securityforum.org Web: www.securityforum.org
ABOUT THE ISF
Founded in 1989, the Information Security Forum (ISF) is an independent, not-for-profit association of leading organisations from around the world. It is dedicated to investigating, clarifying and resolving key issues in cyber, information security and risk management by developing best practice methodologies, processes and solutions that meet the business needs of its Members. ISF Members benefit from harnessing and sharing in-depth knowledge and practical experience drawn from within their organisations and developed through an extensive research and work programme. The ISF provides a confidential forum and framework, which ensures that Members adopt leading-edge information security strategies and solutions. And by working together, Members avoid the major expenditure required to reach the same goals on their own.
DISCLAIMER
This document has been published to provide general information only. It is not intended to provide advice of any kind. Neither the Information Security Forum nor the Information Security Forum Limited accept any responsibility for the consequences of any use you make of the information contained in this document.
Reference: ISF 03 04 16 | Copyright © 2016 Information Security Forum Limited | Classification: Public, no restrictions

