S

S symmetry
Article
Blockchain Security in Cloud Computing: Use Cases, Challenges, and Solutions
Jin Ho Park 1 and Jong Hyuk Park 2,* ID 1 Department of Computer Science, School of Software, SoongSil University, Seoul 06978, Korea; j.park@ssu.ac.kr 2 Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University of Science and Technology, (SeoulTech) Seoul 01811, Korea * Correspondence: jhpark1@seoultech.ac.kr; Tel.: +82-2-970-6702
Received: 29 June 2017; Accepted: 1 August 2017; Published: 18 August 2017
Abstract: Blockchain has drawn attention as the next-generation financial technology due to its security that suits the informatization era. In particular, it provides security through the authentication of peers that share virtual cash, encryption, and the generation of hash value. According to the global financial industry, the market for security-based blockchain technology is expected to grow to about USD 20 billion by 2020. In addition, blockchain can be applied beyond the Internet of Things (IoT) environment; its applications are expected to expand. Cloud computing has been dramatically adopted in all IT environments for its efficiency and availability. In this paper, we discuss the concept of blockchain technology and its hot research trends. In addition, we will study how to adapt blockchain security to cloud computing and its secure solutions in detail.
Keywords: blockchain; computer security; bitcoin; authentication; cloud computing

1. Introduction
With the need for next-generation financial technology recently increasing, there have been active studies on blockchain for the secure use of electronic cash by communicating solely between peers and without the involvement of third parties. A blockchain is the public ledger for transactions and it prevents hacking during transactions involving virtual cash. As a type of distributed database and a data record list that continuously grows, it is designed to disable arbitrary tampering by the operator of distributed peers. Transaction records are encrypted according to a rule and operated in computers that run the blockchain software. Bitcoin is an electronic currency using blockchain technology [1].
Using blockchain can provide higher security compared to storing all data in a central database. In the data storage and management aspect, damage from attacks on a database can be prevented. Moreover, since the blockchain has an openness attribute, it can provide transparency in data when applied to an area requiring the disclosure of data. Due to such strengths, it can be utilized in diverse areas including the financial sector and the Internet of Things (IoT) environment and its applications are expected to expand [2­6].
The blockchain finalizes a transaction record through the work authentication process, when a person who loans electronic cash forms a block by combining the transactions over the network. The hash value is then generated by verifying it and connecting the previous block. This block is periodically updated and reflected on the electronic cash transaction details to share the latest transaction detail block. This process provides security for the transaction of electronic cash and allows the use of a reliable mechanism [7­9].
Cloud computing has been applied to many IT environments due to its efficiency and availability. Moreover, cloud security and privacy issues have been discussed in terms of important security elements: confidentiality, integrity, authentication, access control, and so on [10].

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164; doi:10.3390/sym9080164

www.mdpi.com/journal/symmetry

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

2 of 13

In this paper, we seek to investigate the definition and base technology of blockchain and survey the trend of studies to date to discuss areas to be studied, considering cloud computing environments. In addition, we discuss the considerations for blockchain security and secure solutions in detail.
This paper studies the blockchain technology and surveys the blockchain by analyzing generic technology and research trends and discusses the solution for using bitcoin safely as well as future study areas. The results of this research can serve as important base data in studying blockchain and will aid in understanding the known security problems thus far. We can foster the development of future blockchain technology by understanding the trend of blockchain security.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we discuss related works including the basic concept of blockchain and bitcoin as a use case. Section 3 presents a detailed discussion and survey on the security considerations for blockchain including the settlement of blockchain, the security of transaction, the security of wallet, and the security of software. In Section 4, we discuss blockchain security case studies--authentication, security incidents, and 51% attack--and improve the blockchain. Section 5 proposes secure solutions for the blockchain in cloud computing in detail. Finally, we conclude our study in Section 6.
2. Related Works
In this section, we discuss the basic concept of blockchain and the existing research. We also study the specific use of blockchain in bitcoin.
2.1. Blockchain
A blockchain is the technology that allows all members to keep a ledger containing all transaction data and to update their ledgers to maintain integrity when there is a new transaction. Since the advancement of the Internet and encryption technology has made it possible for all members to verify the reliability of a transaction, the single point of failure arising from the dependency on an authorized third party has been solved.
The blockchain has broker-free (P2P-based) characteristics, thereby doing away with unnecessary fees through p2p transactions without authorization by a third party. Since ownership of the transaction information by many people makes hacking difficult, security expense is saved, transactions are automatically approved and recorded by mass participation, and promptness is assured. Moreover, the system can be easily implemented, connected, and expanded using an open source and transaction records can be openly accessed to make the transactions public and reduce regulatory costs [11].
The blockchain is a structured list that saves data in a form similar to a distributed database and is designed to make arbitrarily manipulating it difficult since the network participants save and verify the blockchain. Each block is a structure consisting of a header and a body. The header includes the hash values of the previous and current blocks and nonce. The block data are searched in the database using the index method. Although the block does not contain the hash value of the next block, it is added as a practice (Figure 1) [12].
Since the hash values stored in each peer in the block are affected by the values of the previous blocks, it is very difficult to falsify and alter the registered data. Although data alteration is possible if 51% of peers are hacked at the same time, the attack scenario is realistically very difficult.
Public, key-based verification and a hash function that can be decrypted are both used to provide security in the blockchain. The ECDSA (Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm) electronic signature algorithm, which verifies the digital signature generated during a transaction between individuals, is used to prove that the transaction data have not been altered.
Although using an anonymous public key as account information enables one to know who sent how much to another peer, it still ensures anonymity since there is no way of finding information pertaining to the owner [13­15].
The hash function is used to verify that the block data containing the transaction details are not altered and to find the nonce value to get a new block, as well as to guarantee the integrity of

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

3 of 13

transaction data during a bitcoin transaction. The integrity of the transaction details can be verified

through the public key-based encryption of the hash value of the transaction data. Moreover, using

the root hash value, which accumulates the hash value of each of the transaction details, enables easy

determination of whether the bitcoin data were altered since the root hash value is changed when the

Svyamlumeetriys 2c0h1a7,n9g, e16d4 in the process [16,17].

3 of 13

Figure 1. Blockchain connection structure. Figure 1. Blockchain connection structure.
The hash function is used to verify that the block data containing the transaction details are not altereTdhearnedarteo mfianndytohnegnooinngcestvuadliuees ttoosgtreetnagtnheewn sbecloucrkit,yausswinegllthaessetochgauraarcatenrtiesetictsheofinbltoegckricthyaoinf. tTrhaensmacotsitoinmdpaotratadnutrpinargt aofbtihtceobilnoctrkacnhsaainctiisonse.cTuhrietyinrteelgatreitdytoofththeepterrasnosnaacltkioeny udseetadilisn ceanncrbyeptvieornifaiendd tthhreoreugahretshteudpiuebsloicnkheoyw-batosepdroetneccrtytphteiopnerosfotnhael hkeays.hAvnalautetaocfktehreatttreamnspatcstiaon"rdeuastae.aMttaocrkeo"vaenrd, uostihnegr tahtetarcokostthoaosbhtvaianluteh,ewpheircshonaaccl ukmeyuslatotersedthienhaapsheevra'sludeeovficeeacinh oorfdthere ttorahnascakcttihoenbdietctaoiilns,. eTnhaebalettsaecakseyr dcaentehrmaciknathtieonbiotcfowinhesitnhceer tthhee bdiattcaoimnadyatbaewleearkeeadltiefrtehdesainttcaeckthere craonotohbatsahinvtahleuepeisrscohnaanlgkeedy.wThoesnotlhvee vthailsupe riosbclheamn,gsetdudinietshoenparopcpelsysin[1g6b,1o7t]h. hardware and software securities for approving transactions are oTnhgeorinegar[e18m].any ongoing studies to strengthen security using these characteristics of blockchain. The mBiotsctoiimn pisorvtaenryt pvaurltnoefrtahbelebltoockinchfeacitnioins sbeycumritaylwrealraetesdintocethiet piserosfotennal tkreaydeudseidninweidneclryyputsioend adnedvitcheesrseuacrhe astsupdeieesrso'nPChoswortosmparorttpechtotnheesp. eTrhsoenmalaklweya.reApneantetatrcakteirngattthemroputgsha v"areriuosuesapttaatchks"sauncdh oatshee-rmaattila,cUksSBto, oorbatapipnsthweitpheprsooonraslekceuyritsytomreudstinbea dpeeteerc'tseddeavnicdetirneaotreddesrintocehiatcckanthienfbeictctoainp.eTerh'es adtetavcickee.r Tcahne hnaecekdtfhoer bsietccuorinitysiniscgertohwe dinagta, pmaartyicbuelaleralykeind tirfatdheesaottfacitkeemr scaunseodbtianingathmeepsesrisnocneaml kaenyy. Toof tshoelmve uthseisbpitrcoobilnesm. A, sstusduicehs, othnearepphlayvinegbebeonthsthuadrdiews aorne daentdecstoinftgwaanred sterecuatriintigesmfoalrwaaprperionvitnhge tgraamnseacetniovnirsonarmeeonntg[o1i9n].g [18].
BOintceooinf tihs evestrryenvgutlhnseroafbbleitctooiinnfiesctthioant ibt yismdiaflfiwcuarltetsoinfacelsiitfyisaonfdteanltterradtheedliendgweirdbeelycauusseedsdoemviacneys spuecehrsasshpaereertsh'ePtCrasnosracstmioanrtlpedhognere.sS. iTnhcee imt taalkweasrtehpeednaettararteicnogrdtherdoiungthhevamriaojoursitpyaothf slesdugcehrsa,shea-cmkianilg, UisSpBr,aocrtiacaplplys wimitphopssoiobrleseucnulreistsytmheusatttbaeckdeerteacltteedrsaannddtfraelastiefidessi5n1c%e iot fcaanll ipnefeercst'alepdegeer'rss,deevveicnei.fTthhee ndeaetad ofof rsosmeceurleitdygiesrsgraorwe ainltge,repda.rtSitciulll,atrhlyerienatrreadcoenscoefrnitsemthsatu5s1e%d ionf gthaemleesdsgienrcsecmanabney foaflstihfieemd aunsde bailttceoreindss.imAusltsaunceho,ustlhyecroenhsiadveerinbgeeinncrsetausdiniegscoomn pduetitnegctipnogwearnadndtrtehaetirnegaremsatluwdaieres siunggtehsetinggamthee einntveirrmonemdieantet v[1e9r]i.fication process or design of the verification process in order to solve the problem.
One of the strengths of bitcoin is that it is difficult to falsify and alter the ledger because so many p2.e2e.rBs isthcoairne the transaction ledger. Since it takes the data recorded in the majority of ledgers, hacking
is praBcitticcoailnlyiismtphoesdsibglietaul ncluersrsetnhceyapttraocpkoesreadltebrys SaantdosfhalisiNfiaeks a5m1%otofianll2p00ee9rsto' laedllgoewrst,reavnesnacitfiothnes
dbaetawoefensopmeerlsedwgitehrsouatreaacletnerteradl. aSutitlhl,otrhiteyreoarraesceornvceerrtnositshsuate5a1n%d omfathneagledtghercsucrarnenbcey.faBlisticfoieidnsaanrde
atrlatedreedd wsimithutlthaenPeo2Pu-sblyasceodnsdiidsetrriibnugteindcdreaatsaibnagsecsombapsuedtinognppouwbleirc-aknedy tchreyrpetoalroegsyt.uBdiitecsosinugisgeosnteinogf tthe
ifinrtsetrimmepdlieamteevnetaritfiiocnastiofncpryropcteoscsuorrrednecsyiginn 1o9f9t8he[2v0e].rification process in order to solve the problem.
The bitcoin transaction information is disclosed over the network such that all peers can verify it 2a.n2d. Bsiotccouinrrency issuance is limited. The peers participating in the network have the same blockchain
and tBhietctorainnsiascttihoen ddiagtiataalrecustrorreendcyinpbrloopckosseidn tbhye sSaamtoeshwiaNy aaksathmeodtoistirnib2u0t0io9ntsotoarlalogwe otfrtarnasnascatcitoinons
between peers without a central authority or a server to issue and manage the currency. Bitcoins are
traded with the P2P-based distributed databases based on public-key cryptology. Bitcoin is one of
the first implementations of cryptocurrency in 1998 [20].
The bitcoin transaction information is disclosed over the network such that all peers can verify
it and so currency issuance is limited. The peers participating in the network have the same

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

4 of 13

data. Although there are many threats involved in electronic transactions, bitcoin can be technically
implemented to cope with them. For example, a person attempting to generate a falsified receipt
record from another person's account to his or her own account can be blocked by verifying it with the
sender's pSeyrmsmoetnrya2l01k7e, 9y,.16I4f multiple parties intend to use a bitcoin at the same time, the ch4 aofi1n3 that loses
in the competition between peers will be eliminated.
falsified receipt record from another person's account to his or her own account can be blocked by
The mveorsiftyibnagsiitcwcitohmthpe osennednert'ss poefrsaonbailtkceoyi.nIfamruelttihplee pbairttcioesinintaednddtroeusssewa bhitecroeintahtethbeistacmoeintimbee,longs, the transactionthsehcohawininthgatthloesefls oinwthoefcobmitpceotitniobnebtewtweeeenn tpheeersawddillrbeesseelism, iannatdedt.he block where the transaction is confirmed by tThhee bmiotcstobinasipceceormsp. oTnhenetskoefyatboittchoeinbairtectohienbpitrcooicneasdsdirsestshwe hbeirtecothienbtirtaconinsabcetlioonngs,,wthheich shows the input ctroanntsaacitnioinn gshtohweinbgittchoe ifnlowanodf btihtceoibnibtectowienenadthderaedsdsreasssetsh, eanoduthtpe ublto.cWk whhielerebthaentkrainnsgacitsiotnhe process
is confirmed by the bitcoin peers. The key to the bitcoin process is the bitcoin transaction, which
wherein sosmhoewos fthtehienpmuot cnoenytaiinninagnthaeccboituconint manodvthees btoitcaoninoatdhderresascacsotuhne to,uatpbuitt.cWoihniletrbaannskaincgtiiosnthreequires all bitcoins inparonceinsspwuhtetroeinbesotmraenosfftehreremdontoeytihneaonuatcpcouutnat nmdovtehsetoinapnouthtseraancdcoounutt,paubtistconienetdrannsoatctbioensingular.
The erleeqcutirroesnaicll bciutcrorienns icnyanusinepdutinto bbeittcroaninsfsercreodntsoisthtse oouftpauct hanadinthoefinepluetcstarnodniocutspiugtns anteuedrensot(Figure 2). The coins obfe asinnTghouewlaernle.ectrroanriec tcruarnresnfceyrruesdedtion tbhiteconinesxctocnhsaisitns owf aitchhathineohf aelsehctrvoanliuc esigonfatthuerespr(eFvigiuorues2)t.ransaction and the eleTchteroconiincs soifgannaotwunreer iasretrtraannssfmerirtetdetdo tthoetnheextpchuabinlicwiktheythoe fhathshevnaleuxetoof wthenperre.vTiohues trreacnispacietinont can check the signatuarnedtoheceolencfitrromnictshigenoatwurneeisrstrhainpsmcihttaeidnt.oItnhetphuebplicrokecyesosf,thaepnreoxtbolwemnera. rTihseesre:ctihpieenrteccainpciehenctkis not able to ensure tthhaetsiognneatuorfetthoecoonwfinrmertshehaows nneortshuipsecdhatihn.eIncothine(psr)omceussl,taipplreobtilmemesa.riAsesr:ethlieabrelceipcieennttrisalnoatuthority is introducedaabutltoehoctorhiteeyncisksuiranetlrltohtdrauat cnoesndaetcootfciohthenceskooawlflndtreoarsnushbaaclsteionunossteouftsodedoaudtbhldeeruceossienst(otsh)aidmsduprletrsiopslbtehleitsimmpero[s2.b1lAe]m.re[l2ia1b].le central

Figure 2. A bitcoin transaction.
Figure 2. A bitcoin transaction.

3. Consideration for Blockchain Security: Challenges

3. ConsideratiBolonckfcohraBinltoecchkncohloagiynhSasecbueernitiym:pClehmaelnlteedngoresrealized as cyber money and is actually used.
Note, however, that various security issues occurring in blockchain agreement, transaction, wallet,
Blockacnhdasionfttweacrhenhoavloe gbyeenharespboreteedn. Timhisppleampeer nchteecdksotrheretraelnidzsedof asescucryitbyeirssmueos nraeisyedantoddiasteaacntdually used. Note, howtehevseerc,utrhitaytlevvaelroiof uthse csuercruenrtitbyloicskscuhaeisn.oWcecuthrirnikntghisinattbelmopctkicshveariynimagporerteamnt easntth,etrreasnulstas ccatinon, wallet,
and softwaserrevehaasvbeasbeedeantarfeorpdoervteeldop. iTnghfiustupraepbelorckcchheacinktsecthhneotlorgeynadnsdosfupspelceumreintytinigsssueceusrirtya.ised to date and

the securit3y.1l.eSvetetlleomfentthoef Bcluocrkrcehnaitnblockchain. We think this attempt is very important as the results can serve as base data for developing future blockchain technology and supplementing security.
Although there should only be one blockchain since it is the sequential connection of generated

3.1.

Settlembifeltonwctkosod,faifBfbellrooeccnkktccphheaaeinrinsmsuacycebeeddiinvimdeindiningtothtewaonsbwecearufsoer

the two latest blocks generating the block

can be generated temporarily at the same time. In such case,

Althotuhegbhlotchkethreatsishnoout lcdhoosennlyasbtheeolanteestbblloocckkbcyhtahienmsaijnorciteyiotfipseethrseinstehqeubeitncotiinanlectownornketcotcioonntinoufegenerated blocks, a blm5o0ic%nkinocrghmwaoiinlrlebmmecaionyminbegemcadepaiavnbiiindligteyled(sosi.pnIentroaottithnwegrocwabpoearbcdiasl,iuttyhs)ee. Tbthihteceroeitfnworweo,ilillfafaotnellsoattwtbactlhkoeecrmkhsaajsco5rai1nt%ybomef ipgneieennrgsecwraaphatoebhdilaitvtyee,mporarily if two diffeare"5n1t%pAeettrascks"u, cwcheeerdeininthme ainttainckgerthhaesacnonswtroelroffothregbelnocekrcahtaiinnganthdeheb/lsohcekcaant itnhceludsaemfalesitfiiemd e. In such

case, the btlroancskactthioants,icsannboet acphroosbelenm.aAsctchoredilnagtetosta bstluodcyk, abnyattahcekemr caanjorreiatlyizeoifllepgeael rgsaininwtithheonbliytc2o5%in network

to continuoepmeraitninigngcawpaiblillibtyetchoromugehma emaanliicniogulsemssi.niInng optrhoceersswinostredads,otfh5e1%bi.tScioncine twheilclufrorelnltowopetrhateinmg ajority of peers whoccaohpnaasvibdieleirt5eyd0o%tfothobeer wmdihfofoicrleuelbtm.itNcionoinninentgheetcwleasopsr,kambisiinlaiintlrygeap(dooyoplhse--irgahthtigenaaginssicnoagcipamtaioebnainsliinotygf f)mu.liTnoihpnegerrapeteifneogrsr--eca,hpiaafvbaeilnibtyeaeitnstacker has 51% mininagctcivaeplyambiilniitnyg, ato"i5n1cr%easAe tthtaecpkr"o,bawbihlietyreoifnmtihneinga.ttTahcukse, rthhisarsisckohnatsrobelcoomf tehaenbislosucek. cRheaceinntlay,nd he/she

can include falsified transactions, can be a problem. According to a study, an attacker can realize

illegal gain with only 25% operating capability through a malicious mining process instead of 51%.

Since the current operating capability of the whole bitcoin network is already high gaining meaningful

operating capability is considered to be difficult. Nonetheless, mining pools--the associations of

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

5 of 13

mining peers--have been actively mining to increase the probability of mining. Thus, this risk has become an issue. Recently, GHash, a leading mining pool, temporarily exceeded the 50% threshold, forcing the bitcoin community to go through internal and external adjustments to cope with the risk. In particular, the possibility of dominating the blockchain is related to the basic security of the bitcoin and such security threats have temporarily affected the economic factors because of the characteristics of the bitcoin, which is always closely related to the market price [22,23].
3.2. Security of Transaction
Since the script used in inputs and outputs is a programming language with flexibility, different transaction forms can be created using such. A bitcoin contract [11] is a method of applying bitcoin for the existing authentication and financial service. A widely used method involves creating the contract using the script that includes a multiple-signature technique called multisig. Although the scripts are used to solve a wide range of bitcoin problems, the possibility of an improperly configured transaction has also increased as the complexity of the script increases. A bitcoin using an improperly configured locking script is discarded since nobody can use it as the unlocking script cannot be generated. To this end, there are studies that suggest models of bitcoin contract-type transactions to verify the accuracy of a script used in a transaction [24].
3.3. Security of Wallet
The bitcoin address is the hash value of a public key encoded with a pair of public and personal keys. Therefore, the locking script of a bitcoin transaction with an address as output can be unlocked with an unlocking script that has the value signed with the public key of the address and the personal key. The bitcoin wallet stores information such as the personal key of the address to be used for the generation of the unlocking script. It means that loss of information in the wallet leads to a loss of bitcoin since the information is essential for using the bitcoin. Therefore, the bitcoin wallet has become the main subject of bitcoin attack through hacking [25].
To assure the security of the bitcoin wallet, services have introduced multisig for multiple signatures. Since multisig only allows a transaction when there is more than one signature, depending on the setting, it can be used as the redundant security feature of the wallet. For example, if multisig is set in an online bitcoin wallet and is configured to require the owner's signature in addition to the signature of the online wallet site whenever a transaction is executed from the wallet, malicious bitcoin withdrawal can be prevented since the owner's personal key is not stored, even when the online wallet site is taken over by a hacking attack. Moreover, multisig is evolving into services that allow withdrawal from the bitcoin wallet only through biometric data or separate equipment using a two-factor authentication and other measures [26].
As the fundamental solution to hacking attacks of a bitcoin wallet, offline, cold storage-type wallets such as a physical bitcoin coin or a paper bitcoin wallet that is not connected to the Internet, are available. Similar approaches include the hardware-type bitcoin wallets to reduce the risk associated with online transactions. The hardware wallet, such as Trezor, stores the key in a tamper-proof storage unit connected to the computer through USB, that is, only when used and the signed transaction is transferred using the internally stored key and only when the user is authenticated. In other words, the storage unit is connected only when there is a need to establish a bitcoin transaction, remaining in cold storage-like status the rest of the time. Although it is more secure than cold storage because there is one more authentication process, problems such as loss of cold storage and lack of user-friendliness also plague the hardware wallet [27].
3.4. Security of Software
The bug of the software used in bitcoin can be critical. Although the official Bitcoin Developer Documentation [28] site clearly explains all bitcoin processes, the bitcoin core software is still effective

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

6 of 13

as the reference since the detailed processes of the early bitcoin system have been determined through

the software implemented by Satoshi Nakamoto.

Nonetheless, even the bitcoin core software, which must be more reliable than anything, is not

free from the problem of software malfunction such as bug. The most famous software bug is the

CVE-2010-5139 vulnerability that occurred in August 2010. Due to the bug caused by integer overflow,

an invalid transaction wherein 0.5 bitcoin was delivered as 184 trillion bitcoin was included in a normal

block, and the problem was not resolved until 8 h later. Moreover, there was a bug where a block

processed in version 0.8 was not processed in version 0.7 as the database was changed from BerkeleyDB

to LevelDB since the bitcoin version of the bitcoin core was upgraded from 0.7 to 0.8. It caused the peers

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

6 of 13

of version 0.7 and peers of version 0.8 to have different blockchains for 6 h. Both of these problems are

cases showingNtohnaethtehleessg, eevneenrtahle cboitcnofiindceonrecseofitnwatrhee, wsheiccuh rmituystobfe bmiotcreorienliatbrlaenthsaanctainoynthsinogf, ias nboltofcreke as having significantfrdomeptthhe parfotbelrema opfesroifotwdaroefmtiamlfuencatniodn scuacnh absebuthg.rTehaetemnoesdt fabmyoausssooffttwwaarerebubguisgth[2e9C]V. E-2010-
5139 vulnerability that occurred in August 2010. Due to the bug caused by integer overflow, an invalid
4. BlockchtraainnsaScteiocnuwrihteyreCina0s.5ebSittcuoidniweass delivered as 184 trillion bitcoin was included in a normal block, and
the problem was not resolved until 8 h later. Moreover, there was a bug where a block processed in version

The d0e.8mwaans ndoftoprrotchesesesdeicnuvreirtsyionof0.b7 iatsctoheindsatbabaasseedwaosnchbalnogcekdcfrhoaminBehrkaesleiynDcBretoaLseevdelsDiBnscienche athceking cases were reporbptieetecdros.inoMfvveter.srGisoiononxo0f,.8athteboibhticatcvooeiinndicefofxerrceehnwatanbslgoucepkgbcrhaaadsineedsdfforinor m6Tho0..k7Byototoh0,o.J8fa.tpIhtaecsnaeu,psrereodpbtlohemretpseedaerrelsocoasfssevesesrsshoioofwnUi0nS.g7Dathn8adt.75 million due to hactkhienggenienraJluconnefid2e0n1c1e iannthde bseictucroitiynowf baitlcloeint tsrearnvsaiccteionIns sotfaaWbloaclkleats rheapvionrgtseigdnilfoicsasnetsdeopfthUaSftDer a4.6 million due to hapcekriondgofitnimAe apnrdilca2n0b1e3th.reaItnenNedobvyeamsobftwerareobfutgh[e29]s. ame year, anonymous marketplace Sheep

Marketplace was forced to shut down after somebody stole USD 100 million worth of bitcoins. Mt. Gox,
4. Blockchain Security Case Studies
which had already suffered losses due to hacking, again reported losses of USD 470 million due to hacking in FebTrhueadreym2an0d14foar nthde sseucbursietyqoufebnittcloyinfislbeadsefdoornbbalnockkrcuhapintchya.sTinhcerepasreodbslienmceshaccoknintgincuaseeds , with the
were reported. Mt. Gox, a bitcoin exchange based in Tokyo, Japan, reported losses of USD 8.75 million
Hong Kondgu-ebtaosheadckbinitgcioniJnuneex2c0h11anangdebBitciotfiinnweaxllertespeorvritcienIgnsltaoWssaellsetorefpUorSteDd l6os5sems oifllUioSnD 4d.6ume itlloionhacking in August 20d1u6e. TtohehsaeckpinrgobinleAmpsrihl a20v1e3.raIniseNdovaewmbaerrenoef stsheofsatmhe nyeeaerd, afnoornsyemcouursitmy.arketplace Sheep
ThereMharakveetplbaceeewnaas cfoardceedmtoicshsuttuddoiwesn aofntertshoemesbeocduyristtoyleoUfSbDlo10c0kmchilaliionn wtoorothvoefrbciotcmoiens.sMuct.h security problems Ganoxd, wmhaicnhyhapdaaplreerasdyhsauvffeerbedeelonsspesudbuleistohheadck[i3n0g],.agInainpraerptoirctuedlalors,sseisnocfeUbSDlo4c7k0cmhialliionnidsutehe generic
to hacking in February 2014 and subsequently filed for bankruptcy. The problems continued, with
technologythoefHcoynbgeKromngo-bnaesyed, tbhitecodinamexcahgaensgecaBnitfibneexsreerpioorutisnginlocssaesseosf oUfSmD 6is5umsielliaonndduaetttoemhapcktisntgoinsteal cyber money occAuurgfursetq2u01e6n. tTlhye. sTehperorbelfeomres ,hiatvseereamisesdvawerayremneessaonfinthgefnueletdofournsedceurrsittya.nd the attack cases known so
far and to carrTyhoeruethianvveebseteignaatciaodnesmtioc sdturadwies uopn cthoeusnetceurrmityeoafsublroecsk.chain to overcome such security
problems and many papers have been published [30]. In particular, since blockchain is the generic

4.1. Authentetcichantoiloongy of cyber money, the damages can be serious in cases of misuse and attempts to steal cyber
money occur frequently. Therefore, it seems very meaningful to understand the attack cases known
An imsopofarrtaanndt tpoacratrroyfobultoicnkvecshtiagiantiosnescutorditryawisuspeccouurnittyermreelaastuerdest.o the personal key used in encryption.

An attacke4r.1c.aArurtiheesntoicuattiovnarious attempts to access a user's personal key stored in the user's computer or smartphone in order to hack the bitcoin. The attacker will install malware on the computer or smartphoneenctroyAplnetiaoiknm.tpAhonertaauntsttaecprka'esrrtpcoeafrrrsbioelsoncoakulcthkaveianyrioaseuncsduaruitttyesmeispittssteotcouhraiactycceksrsethlaaetuebdseirtt'cosoptihneer.soSpneoarmslokeneasyltusktedoyrieedussihendatvhinee proposed a hardwaruesteor'ks econmfpourtethr oeraspmparrtopvhaonl eoifnaortdraerntsoahcatcikonthteobiptcroointe. Tcthethaettapckeerrsownilal ilnksteayll.malware on the
Othercosmtupdutieersosrusmggaretpstheodnesttorelenakgtheenuseedr'sapuetrhsoennatlikceaytiaonnd umseeiatstourheasckfothretbhitecosinto. Sraomge sutunditiecsontaining the bitcoinh.avAe ptrwopoo-sfeadcatohraraduwtahreentotkiecnatfoior ntheisapcpornovsiadl oefraedtratnosabcteiotnhteo pleroatdecitntghempeertshonoadl kfeoyr. strengthening authenticatthioe nbO.itFtchooeinrr.sbAtiutdctwioeiosn-sf,uatcghtgoeerstatweudtohs-etprnetanicrgattythioesnnigeidsncaaoutnuthsrieedneptriceradottitoooncbomeletbahyseuElreeCasdDfionrSgAthmecesatthnoordabgefeourusnsetirtdecnofgonttrhaeainnuiinnthgg entication (Figure 3) a[3u1th,3en2t]i.cation. For bitcoin, the two-party signature protocol by ECDSA can be used for
authentication (Figure 3) [31,32].

4.2. Security Incidents

FiguFriegu3r.e E3.CEDCDSSAAttwwoo--ppaartrytysigsniagtnuraet.ure.

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

7 of 13

4.2. Security Incidents
With more people using bitcoins, cases of malware and malicious codes targeting bitcoins have also been reported. Malware can hack the bitcoins by infecting computers. To solve such a problem, a PC security solution must be installed to detect malicious code [17]. One recently found malicious code looted game accounts and can be applied for looting the bitcoin accounts. With more bitcoins being used for the cash transaction of online game items, security measures to cope with it are needed [33].
The Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack floods the targeted server with superfluous requests to overload the system and prevent the provision of normal service to other users. Thus, it can prevent the users of blockchain from receiving the service. DDoS attacks include the bandwidth-consuming attack that exceeds the bandwidth of all systems using the same network and the PPS (Packet Per Second)-consuming attack that causes internal system failure or the denial of service to other servers in the same network. The http-flooding attack transfers a large amount of http packets to a targeted server to cause the denial of service. Since the bitcoin service must be continuously provided to the users, countermeasures to DDoS attacks are needed [34].
4.2.1. 51% Attack
In a bitcoin environment, a 51% attack alters and falsifies 51% of the ledgers simultaneously. Thus, it is a very difficult attack to coordinate. The attacker must have 51% or more calculating capability of all users, intentionally generate two branches, and set the targeted branch as the legitimate blockchain. To solve the problem, an intermediate verification process must be provided to prevent such tampering [35,36].
In a bitcoin environment, a 51% attack consists of five steps.
1. Publish mining software with a higher EV (Expected Value).
(1) Mine on new headers (but validate it as soon as possible) (2) More "flexible" 2-h rule (3) Decide on fork with own block version number (4) Make miner aware of the "Goldfinger" reward (5) "Members only" functionality
2. Create a pool with stickiness.
(1) New members will receive only 90% of shares in the first 2 weeks and 110% after 2 weeks (Ponzi scheme)
3. Create unwanted coalitions (timestamp attack). 4. Attack other pools with cannibalizing pools. 5. Eventually switch to members only.
A race attack generates hundreds of transactions and sends them to multiple users when a legitimate transaction is sent. Since many users are likely to presume the transferred transaction to be legitimate, losses can be sustained if 51% of users change the ledger.
In a Finney attack, an attacker generates a block containing altered data and carries out the attack with it. Such attacks can be prevented when the attack target sets the transaction in standby mode until block confirmation.
4.2.2. Improved Blockchain
Since the current payment system is very complex and transaction facilitators are scattered, the points targeted by security attacks are increasing. A user intending to trade money will pay an annual membership fee to receive a card and use it to purchase goods or use services. The customer's

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

8 of 13

bank and the merchant's bank interact with each other to settle the fee and a shop intending to use the card receives it from a bank and uses it for the purchase of goods and services. A simplification of tSryamnmseatcryti2o0n17i,s9r,e1q64uired since more people use smartphones to purchase goods or services (Figure 4)8 [o3f71]3.

FFiigguurree 44.. GGeenneerraall ppaayymmeenntt pprroocceessss ssyysstteemm..
As for tthhe bbeennefifits ooff eexxeeccuuttiinng aa ccoonnvveennttional ttrransaction as aa ppeeeerr--ttoo--ppeeeer ttrraannssaction using blockchain, the transaction is not only reliable and verififiable but also cost-effificient since there are no third parties involved. In addition, a transaction using blockchain can be completed very quickly since physical distance does not affect the transaction, whereas conventional transactions across the border can be very ssllow.. MMoorreeoovveer,, ccoonnvveennttiioonnaall,, cceennttrraally mmaanaged transactions are vulnerable to leaks of important data when the managing server is hacked since all the vvaluable data is mmaanaged in the ccentral server.. In contrast, it iis vveerryy ddiifffificcuulltt ttoo aattttaacckk bblloocckkcchhaaiinn--bbaased ttrransactions since all imporrttaanntt ddataatais idsisdtriisbturitbeudteadndaanndatatanckaetrtamckuesrt hmacuksat nhdaaclkteran51d%aoltfetrhe5p1e%er-otof -ptheer ptreaenrs-atoc-tpioenesr. Ttrhaenrseafoctrieo,nths.eTimheprreofovreed, bthloecikmchparoinvmedubstlobcekuchseadinfomr utrsatnbseacutsioednsfotor stroalvnesathcteiopnros btolesmoslvoeftchoenpveronbtiloenmasl torfacnosnacvteionntison[1a]l. transactions [1].
One of the biggest problems of bitcoin using the blockchain is the possibility of a ddouble transsaaccttiioonn.. AAddouobulbeletratrnasnascaticotnioins tihsetahcet oafcsteonfdisnegntdhiengbittchoeinbtiotctowino otor mtworoe oacrcomuonrtes faocrcmouanlitcsiofuosr pmuarlpicoioseussapnudrp"toosteasl caunrdre"ntcoyta"lacnudrr"elnocnyg"esatncdha"ilnonwgiensst"cahraeinuswedinass"maerechuasneidsmass fmorepchreavneisnmtins gfoitr. Tphreevteonttailngcuitr.reTnhceytomtaelcchuarnriesnmcymmeeacnhsanthisamt tmheeatrnasntshaacttitohne tcraannsbaecttieornmciannatbeedteirfmthineattoetdalifctuhreretontcayl ecxucrerendcsy21exmceileldiosn2b1ymdiolluiobnlebtyradnosaucbtlieontr.aTnhseacltoinogne. sTthcehaloinngweisntscmhaeicnhwaninissmmcercehaatensistmhecnrexatebslothcke finresxttwbhloecnkafibrlsotcwkchheaninaisbflorckecdhabiyn disoufobrlkeetdrabnysadctoiounblaentdratnhsealcotniognesatncdhatihnewloitnhgtehset mchoasitnwwoirtkhwthilel amlwosatyws owrikn.will always win.
If aauusesrerdoduobulbe-lsep-sepnednsdasbaitcboiitncoainndatnhde trthanesatrcatniosnacdteiotanilsdaertaeiclsonasreequcoentsleyqsueenntttloy twseontditfofertewnot pdeifefresr,entwt poebelros,ctkws owbilol cbkesgweinllebraetgeedn. eTrahtedp.eTehrse pweiellrsgwenilelrgaetenetrhaetentehxetnbelxotcbklsouckssinugsitnwgotwbloobcklosckins cinomcopmetpiteitointi.oAn.sAasraesruelstu, ltth,ethcehachinaitnhatht alotsleosseins itnhethceocmopmeptietitoitnio, nsu, scuhcahsatshethreedrebdlobclokciknitnhethFeigFuigruer3e, i3s, nisantuartualrlaylleyliemliimnainteadtedanadndthtehleolnognegrecrhcahianinwwinins.s.TThheeddoouubblelessppeennddininggpprroobblleemmccaannbbee aadddressed through such a mmeecchhaanniissmm ((FFiigguurree 55)) [[3388]]..

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164 Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

9 of 13 9 of 13

Figure 5. Double-spending prevention mechanism. Figure 5. Double-spending prevention mechanism.
5. Secure Blockchain Solutions in Cloud Computing 5. Secure Blockchain Solutions in Cloud Computing
The security factors for using bitcoin with blockchain were introduced in Section 3 and security casesTohfebsietccouirnitsyufsaicntgorbslofocrkcuhsaining wbietcreoirnevwieitwhebdloicnkScehcatiinonw4e.re introduced in Section 3 and security casesIof fthbeitcuosienrsduastiangisbdliosccklocsheadininwtehree rcelovuiedwceodminpuSteicntgioenn4v.ironment, monetary and psychological damaIfgtehsecuanseor cdcautra disudeistoclothseedleiankthoef culsoeurds'csoemnspituivtienginefnovrmiroatnimone.nTt,hme osenceutarirtyyaonfdthpesyscahvoinloggaicnadl dtraamnsamgeitsticnagn doactcau,rsduuche taos thcoenlfeiadkenotfiaulisteyrsa'nsdenisnittievgeriitnyf,oirnmtahteioncl.ouTdhecsoemcupruittyinogf ethnevisraovnimngenatnids tmraaninsmlyitsttiundgidedat.aN, soutec,hhaoswcoevnefird,etnhtaitalsittuydaineds oinntepgrrivitayc, yinptrhoetecclotiuodn caonmdpauntoinngymenitvyiraornemneonttsiusfmficaiiennlty. sBtluodcikecdh.aNinoties, haowreepvreers,etnhtaattsivtuedtieeschonnoplorigvyacfyoprroentescutiroinnganadnoannoynmyimtyi.tyIfarceonmobt isnueffidciwenitth. Btlhoeckcclhoauind icsoma preuptirnegseenntvatirivoenmteecnhtn, oblloogckychfoarinecnasnurbiengupagnroandyemd ittoy.a cIof ncvoemnbieinntedserwviitche tthhaet cplroouvdidceosmstprountignegr esencvuirroitnym. Uenset,r balnoockncyhmaiitnyccaannbbeeuepngsruardeeddiftothaecbolnovckenchieanint smerevtihcoedthisatupsreodvwidhesenstsraovnignegr tsheecuursiteyr. Uinsfeorrmanaotinoynminitythceanclboeudencsoumrepduitfinthgeebnlvoicrkocnhmaeinntm. Aetnhoedlecistruosneidc wwahlelentsiasviinnsgtatlhleeduwsehreinnfuorsminagtitohne ibnlotchkechclaoiundteccohmnopluotginy.gIef nthveiroelnemcteronnt.icAwnaellleetctirsonnoict wpraolpleetrliys idneslteatleledd, twheheunseursiinnfgortmheatbiloonckccahnabine tleecfthbneohloingdy.. TIfhtehreemeleacintrionngicusweralilneftoirsmnaottiopnrocpaenrblye duesleedtetdo,gtuheesusstehreiunsfoerrminaftoiromnactaionnb.eTloefstoblveehitnhdis. Tphroebrleemma, iwnienpgroupseorseinafosromluatitoionnthcaant inbestaulslesdantod gdueleestsesththeeuesleerctinrofonricmwatailolent. sTeocusroellvye. this problem, we prCoapsoesseoaf sfaollsuitfiyoinngthtahteinlesdtaglelsr aonrdbidtceoleintesanthdedeoleucbtrleontriacnwsaacllteiot nsescoufrebllyo.ckchain pose the biggest probCleamse. sAosfefcaulsriefywinaglletht eislendegederedortobistcoolvine asuncdhdsoeucbulreittyrapnrsoabclteimonss. Aofltbhloouckgchhtahine eploescetrtohneicbwigaglelestt pinrsotballelemd. iAn stheceuPreCwisalgleetniesrnaleleyduesdetdo, stohlevesescuucrhityseocuf reilteyctprroonbiclemwas.llAetlsthinoumghobtihlee edleevcitcroesnimc wusatllbeet ivnesrtiafileleddaisnmthoebiPleCdiesvgiceensehraalvlye buesceodm, tehveesreycuproiptyuloafr.eSleinctcreonaitcrawnaslalcettisoinnomccoubrislebadseevdicoens mthuesttimbee vvearluifieeodfaasmmoobbilieleddeevvicicee, sthheasveecuberictoymofeavterraynpsaocptiuolnarc.aSninbceecaontrfairnmsaecdtioonnlyocwcuhresnbbaostehdtohne itnhteegtirmitye vaanldueacocfuaramcyoboifleadtiemviecset,atmhepsgeecunreirtayteodf aintraamnsoabctilieondecvanicebearceongufiarmraendteoendly[2w8]h. en both the integrity and aMccourreaocvyeor,ftahetimbaesesttaemchpngoelongeyramteudsitnaalsmo boebivleerdifeiveidcesianrceegvuualrnaenrtaebeidlit[i2e8s]d. iffer according to the progMramormeoivnegr,lathnegubaagsee taencdhnpolalotfgoyrmmuusset dalfsoorbtheevdereivfieeldopsminecnetvouflntheeraebleilcittrieosndicifwfearllaectceonrvdiirnogntmoetnhte. pArosgecraumremeliencgtrloanngicuwagaellaetnmd pulsattbfoerdmevuesleodpfeodr bthyemdienviemloizpimngenatnodfvthereifeyleinctgropnriocbwleamllsettheantvciraonnomcecnutr. Aat seeaccuhresteelpectorfonpilcanwnainllge,t rmequustirebme ednetvealnoaplyedsisb, yimmpilneimmeinzitnatgioann, dQvAer(iQfyuinaglityproAbslseumrasntchea),t acnand omcaciunrteantaenacceh. step of planning, requirement analysis, implementation, QA (Quality Assurance), and mThaienteelnecatnrcoen.ic wallet must have measures for secure restoration if infringed by an attacker, verifiTchaetioenlecotfroanibciwnaarlyletinmstuaslltedhavfoer mseelafs-purroetsecfotironse, caunrde rpersototeracttiioonn ioffinthfreinrgeemdabinyinagn datattaackfeorr, vreesrtifiorcaattiioonn.oIft ambuinstapryroinvsidtaellseedcuforritsyeflfo-rptrhoetedctaitoans, taonrdedprinottehcetioenlecotfrtohneicrewmaalilnetinags dwaetlal faosrtrheestsoertatitniogns. Intemeduesdt pfororvtihdeeusteicliuzraittiyonfoorfththeedealteacstrtoonreidc winatlhleet.eIltecmtruosnticalwsoalbleetaabslwe teolldaesltehtee tsheettirnegmsanineeindgeddafotar securely when the electronic wallet is no longer used and must consequently be discarded.
To use an electronic wallet securely, a user installs it on his or her PC and the platform sends the electronic wallet and data to establish a secure environment. The user downloads and installs the

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

10 of 13

the utilization of the electronic wallet. It must also be able to delete the remaining data securely when

the electronic wallet is no longer used and must consequently be discarded.

To use an electronic wallet securely, a user installs it on his or her PC and the platform sends

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

10 of 13

the electronic wallet and data to establish a secure environment. The user downloads and installs

tehleecetlreocntriconwiaclwletaslloefttwsoafrtwe taoreustoe tuhseebtihtceobinitcwoiitnhwbliothckbclhoacikncahnadinthanedputhbelicpkuebylicofktehye opflathtfeorpmlaitsfosremnt itsostehnetetloectthreoneilcecwtraolnleitcwwhaelnletthwehinesntathllaetiinonstaisllcaotimonpliestecdo.mTphleeteeldec. trTohneicewlecatlrleotnsiecnwdasltlhete sceenrtdifsictahtee cdeirsttirfiibcautteeddidsutrriibnugteddevdeuloripnmgednetvteolothpempelnattftoormth,ewphliacthfotrhmen, wvehriicfhiesththene vvaelriidfiietys tohfethvealciedrittiyficoaftethien ctehretifielceactteroinnicthwe aellleectt.roTnhiec pwlaatllfeotr.mThaendpltahtefoermlecatrnodnitcheweallelecttroexncichawnaglelettheexckheaynugesinthgetkheeyDuisfifnieg­ tHheelDlmifafine­mHeethllomda,nwmithetehaocdh,owwinthinegatchheoswhanriendgktehye. sWhahreendakuesye. rWrehqeunesatsuasetrrarnesqaucetisotsn aintvraonlvsiancgtitohne iunsveoolvfiangbitthcoeiuns, ethoeflaedbgitecrodina,ttahceolnetdagineirndgatthaectoinmtaeisntianmgpthdeattiambeetswtaemenp tdhaetaelbeecttrwoeneicnwthaelleelteacntrdonthice wplaaltlfeotramndarteheenpclarytfpotremd awreithentchreysphteadrewd iktheythaensdhsaernedt. kWehyeannda rseeqnut.eWst hfoerndaisrpeqousaelstisfoerxedcisupteodsa, lthise euxseecru'stecde,rtthifeicuasteeri'ss fcoeurtnifidcaantedisdfeoluetneddafnrodmdetlheeteedlefcrotrmontihcewelaelcletrtoannicdwthaellefitnainshdetdhemfiensissahgeedims seessnatgteo icsosnefnirtmtotchoantfiitrmhatshbaeteitnhsaescubreeelny sdeicsucarerdlyedd.isIcnaraddeddit.iIonn,adaldl itthioenr,ealellvtahnetrfeilleesvaanret fidleelsetaerde dsoeltehtaetdtshoe trheamt athineinregmdaaitnainagredsaetcauarreelyserceumreolvyerdem(Foigvuerde(6F)i.gure 6).

FFiigguurree 66.. SSeeccuurree bbiittccooiinn pprroottooccooll..

TThhiiss mmeetthhoodd uusseessaabblolockckchchaianin-b-absaesdedeleelcetcrotrnoinciwc awllaeltleint tinhethcleoucldocuodmcpoumtipnugteinngviernonvmiroennmt. Tenhte. Tbhloecbklcohcakinchmaienthmoedthisodusiesdutsoedretmo orveme tohveeitnhfeorimnfaotriomnatoifonthoefutsheer uwshero wusheos uclsoeusdclcooumdpcuotminpgu. tTinhgis. Tmheisthmodethinosdtailnlsstaalnlsdaunsdesusaens aenleeclteroctnriocnwicawllaetlleatnadndrermemovoevsesititnnoormrmaalllyly. .TThhee eelleeccttrroonniicc wwaalllleett iiss sseeccuurreellyyrreemmoovveeddbbyysseennddiinnggtthheefifinniisshheeddmmeessssaaggee.. LLeeaakk ooff uusseerr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn ccaann bbee pprreevveenntteedd oonnllyy wwhheenn tthheeeelleeccttrroonniiccwwaalllleettiissccoommppleletteellyyrreemmoovveedd.. EEvveenn tthhoouugghh mmaannyy eexxiissttiinngg ssttuuddiieess hhaavvee bbeeeenn ppeerrffoorrmmeedd oonn tthhee bblloocckkcchhaaiinn pprroottooccooll,, aa mmeetthhoodd ffoorr rreemmoovviinngg tthhee eelleeccttrroonniicc wwaalllleett ccoommpplleetteellyy iiss pprreesseenntteeddttooeennssuurreeuusseerraannoonnyymmitityyaannddpprrivivaaccyypprrootetecctitoionn. .
WWeeccoommppaarreeddtthheemmeetthhoodd wwiitthh eexxiissttiinngg ssttuuddiieess iinn tteerrmmss ooff ccoonnffiiddeennttiiaalliittyy,, iinntteeggrriittyy,, aannoonnyymmiittyy,, pprriivvaaccyy pprrootteeccttiioonn,, aanndd rreessiidduuaall iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn pprrootteeccttiioonn ((TTaabbllee 11)).. CCoonnfifiddeennttiiaalliittyy cchheecckkss iiff tthhee iinnffoorrmmaattiioonniiss lleeaakkeedd ttoo uunnaauutthhoorriizzeeddppeeeerrss,, wwhheerreeaassiinntteeggrriittyycchheecckkssiifftthhee ddaattaa uusseedd iinn ttrraannssaaccttiioonnss aarreeaalltteerreeddoorrffaallssiififieeddwwiitthhoouuttssaannccttiioonndduurriinnggttrraannssffeerroorrssttoorraaggee..AAnnoonnyymmiittyy mmuusstt aassssuurreetthhaatttthhee ppeeeerriinnvvoollvveeddiinnaattrraannssaaccttiioonniissnnoott iiddeennttiififiaabbllee.. PPrriivvaaccyy pprrootteeccttiioonnpprrootteeccttsstthheeppeerrssoonnaalliinnffoorrmmaattiioonn ooff ppeeeerrss ppaarrttiicciippaattiinngg iinn tthhee ttrraannssaaccttiioonn,, wwhheerreeaass rreessiidduuaall iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn pprrootteeccttiioonn cchheecckkss tthhee ssaaffee rreemmoovvaallooffuusseerrddaattaaaatttthheettiimmeeooffttrraannssaaccttiioonntteerrmmiinnaattiioonnaannddpprrooggrraammrreemmoovvaal.l.

Table 1. Comparison of related studies.

Confidentiality Integrity
Anonymity Availability
Privacy Protection

Authentication Case [31]
  


Security Incidents Case [34]   


51% Attack Case [35] 



Improved Blockchain Case [38] 



Secure Blockchain Solution    


Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

11 of 13

Table 1. Comparison of related studies.

Confidentiality Integrity
Anonymity Availability Privacy Protection Residual Information Protection

Authentication Case [31]
   

Security Incidents Case [34]   


51% Attack Case [35] 



Improved Blockchain Case [38] 



Secure Blockchain Solution     


The authentication case [31] does not provide integrity since it has the problem of leaking the key by hacking the personal key to attack the blockchain. Also, it does not provide residual information protection since it does not verify the complete removal of the electronic wallet. The security incidents case [34] does not provide availability since the service becomes unavailable due to infection by malware and does not provide residual information protection since it does not verify the complete removal of the electronic wallet. The 51% attack case [35] can have problems of infringed integrity of the transaction ledger and unavailability following an attack that alters 51% of the transaction ledger. Additionally, it does not provide residual information protection since it does not verify the complete removal of the electronic wallet. The improved blockchain case [38] neither assures integrity nor provides availability since the vulnerability of double transaction remains. Moreover, it does not provide residual information protection since it does not verify the complete removal of the electronic wallet. The secure blockchain solution improves security by providing residual information protection since it encrypts the data using a public key and verifies the complete removal of the electronic wallet.
6. Conclusion
A blockchain has done away with the server to exclude the involvement of the central authority and has facilitated transactions through the participants who jointly store the transaction records and, finally, approve the transactions using P2P network technology. The blockchain has a distributed structure and utilizes the peer network and the computing resources of peers. Technical measures such as proof of work and proof of stack have been implemented to improve the security of blockchain.
Although the security of blockchain is continuously enhanced, problems have continued to be reported and there are active studies on security. An attacker makes various attempts to access a user's personal key stored in the user's computer or smartphone in order to hack the bitcoin. There are studies on using a secure token or saving it securely to protect the personal key.
In this study, we discussed the blockchain technology and related core technologies and surveyed the trend of studies to date to discuss further areas to be studied. Various current issues should be taken into account to use blockchain in the cloud computing environment. Blockchain gives rise to many problems even now, such as the security of transactions, wallet, and software and various studies have been conducted to solve these issues. The anonymity of user information should be ensured when using blockchain in the cloud computing environment and the user information should be completely deleted when removing the service. If the user information is not deleted but instead left behind, the user information can be guessed from the remaining information. Therefore, this study discussed the method of providing security by presenting a method of secure blockchain use and removal protocol. It seems that studies on efficiency are also needed beside security, considering the environment wherein a massive amount of information is transmitted.
Acknowledgments: This research was supported by MSIP (Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning) Korea under the ITRC (Information Technology Research Center) support program (IITP-2017-2014-0-00720) supervised by IITP (Institute for Information & communications Technology Promotion).
Author Contributions: Jin Ho Park: Research for related works, analysis, design, amelioration of the proposed model and drafting of the article. Jong Hyuk Park: Total supervision of paperwork, review, comments, assessment, etc.

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

12 of 13

Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Il-Kwon, L.; Young-Hyuk, K.; Jae-Gwang, L.; Jae-Pil, L. The Analysis and Countermeasures on Security Breach of Bitcoin. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science and Its Applications, Guimarães, Portugal, 30 June­3 July 2014; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2014.
2. Beikverdi, A.; JooSeok, S. Trend of centralization in Bitcoin's distributed network. In Proceedings of the 2015 16th IEEE/ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel/Distributed Computing (SNPD), Takamatsu, Japan, 1­3 June 2015.
3. Bonneau, J.; Miller, A.; Clark, J.; Narayanan, A.; Kroll, J.A.; Felten, E.W. Sok: Research perspectives and challenges for bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), San Jose, CA, USA, 17­21 May 2015. [CrossRef]
4. Christidis, K.; Michael, D. Blockchains and Smart Contracts for the Internet of Things. IEEE Access 2016, 4, 2292­2303. [CrossRef]
5. Huang, H.; Chen, X.; Wu, Q.; Huang, X.; Shen, J. Bitcoin-based fair payments for outsourcing computations of fog devices. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2016. [CrossRef]
6. Huh, S.; Sangrae, C.; Soohyung, K. Managing IoT devices using blockchain platform. In Proceedings of the 2017 19th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT), Bongpyeong, Korea, 19­22 February 2017.
7. Armknecht, F.; Karame, G.; Mandal, A.; Youssef, F.; Zenner, E. Ripple: Overview and Outlook. In Trust and Trustworthy Computing; Conti, M., Schunter, M., Askoxylakis, I., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2015; pp. 163­180.
8. Vasek, M.; Moore, T. There's No Free Lunch, Even Using Bitcoin: Tracking the Popularity and Profits of Virtual Currency Scams. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, San Juan, Puerto Rico, 26­30 January 2015; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Gemany, 2015.
9. Zhang, J.; Nian, X.; Xin, H. A Secure System For Pervasive Social Network-based Healthcare. IEEE Access 2016, 4, 9239­9250. [CrossRef]
10. Singh, S.; Jeong, Y.-S.; Park, J.H. A survey on cloud computing security: Issues, threats, and solutions. J. Netw. Comput. Appl. 2016, 75, 200­222. [CrossRef]
11. Kaskaloglu, K. Near zero Bitcoin transaction fees cannot last forever. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Digital Security and Forensics (DigitalSec2014), The Society of Digital Information and Wireless Communication, Ostrava, Czech Republic, 24­26 June 2014.
12. Ziegeldorf, J.H.; Matzutt, R.; Henze, M.; Grossmann, F.; Wehrle, K. Secure and anonymous decentralized Bitcoin mixing. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2016. [CrossRef]
13. Aitzhan, N.Z.; Davor, S. Security and Privacy in Decentralized Energy Trading through Multi-signatures, Blockchain and Anonymous Messaging Streams. IEEE Trans. Dependable Secur. Comput. 2016, 99. [CrossRef]
14. Heilman, E.; Foteini, B.; Sharon, G. Blindly signed contracts: Anonymous on-blockchain and off-blockchain bitcoin transactions. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Christ Church, Barbados, 22­26 February 2016; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Gemany, 2016.
15. Natoli, C.; Gramoli, V. The blockchain anomaly. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 15th International Symposium on Network Computing and Applications (NCA), Cambridge, MA, USA, 31 October­2 November 2016.
16. Shi, N. A new proof-of-work mechanism for bitcoin. Financ. Innov. 2016, 2, 31. [CrossRef] 17. Swan, M. Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy; O'Reilly Media, Inc.: Sebastopol, CA, USA, 2015. 18. Tschorsch, F.; Scheuermann, B. Bitcoin and beyond: A technical survey on decentralized digital currencies.
IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2015, 18, 2084­2123. [CrossRef] 19. Wressnegger, C.; Freeman, K.; Yamaguchi, F.; Rieck, K. Automatically Inferring Malware Signatures for
Anti-Virus Assisted Attacks. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Abu Dhabi, UAE, 02­06 April 2017. 20. Decker, C.; Roger, W. Information propagation in the bitcoin network. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE Thirteenth International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing (P2P), Trento, Italy, 9­11 September 2013.

Symmetry 2017, 9, 164

13 of 13

21. Nakamoto, S. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. Available online: https://bitcoin.org/en/ bitcoin-paper (accessed on 29 June 2017).
22. Bozic, N.; Guy, P.; Stefano, S. A tutorial on blockchain and applications to secure network control-planes. SCNS IEEE 2016. [CrossRef]
23. Bradbury, D. The problem with Bitcoin. Comput. Fraud Secur. 2013, 11, 5­8. [CrossRef] 24. Paul, G.; Sarkar, P.; Mukherjee, S. Towards a more democratic mining in bitcoins. In Proceedings of
the International Conference on Information Systems Security, Hyderabad, India, 16­20 December 2014; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2014. 25. Bamert, T.; Decker, C.; Wattenhofer, R.; Welten, S. BlueWallet: The Secure BitcoinWallet. In Security and Trust Management; Mauw, S., Jensen, C., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2014; pp. 65­80. 26. Anceaume, E.; Lajoie-Mazenc, T.; Ludinard, R.; Sericola, B. Safety analysis of Bitcoin improvement proposals. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 15th International Symposium on Network Computing and Applications (NCA), Cambridge, MA, USA, 31 Octomber­2 November 2016. 27. Upadhyaya, R.; Jain, A. Cyber ethics and cybercrime: A deep dwelved study into legality, ransomware, underground web and bitcoin wallet. In Proceedings of the 2016 International Conference on Computing, Communication and Automation (ICCCA), Noida, India, 29­30 April 2016. 28. Haber, S.; Stornetta, W.S. How to time-stamp a digital document. In Proceedings of the Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptography, Sydney, NSW, Australia, 8­11 January 1990; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Gemany, 1990. 29. Eyal, I.; Emin, G.S. Majority is not enough: Bitcoin mining is vulnerable. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Christ Church, Barbados, 3­7 March 2014; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Gemany, 2014. 30. Petersen, K.; Feldt, R.; Mujtaba, S.; Mattsson, M. Systematic Mapping Studies in Software Engineering. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering (EASE), Bari, Italy, 26­27 June 2008. 31. Mann, C.; Loebenberger, D. Two-factor authentication for the Bitcoin protocol. In International Workshop on Security and Trust Management; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2015. 32. Yuan, Y.; Wang, F.-Y. Towards blockchain-based intelligent transportation systems. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 19th International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1­4 November 2016. 33. Kogias, E.K.; Jovanovic, P.; Gailly, N.; Khoffi, I.; Gasser, L.; Ford, B. École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL). Enhancing bitcoin security and performance with strong consistency via collective signing. In Proceedings of the 25th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 16), Austin, TX, USA, 10­12 August 2016. 34. Vasek, M.; Thornton, M.; Moore, T. Empirical analysis of denial-of-service attacks in the Bitcoin ecosystem. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Christ Church, Barbados, 3­7 March 2014; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Gemany, 2014. 35. Bastiaan, M. Preventing the 51%-Attack: A Stochastic Analysis of Two Phase Proof of Work in Bitcoin. Available online: http://referaat.cs.utwente.nl/conference/22/paper/7473/preventingthe-51-attack-astochastic-analysis-of-two-phase-proof-of-work-in-bitcoin.pdf (accessed on 29 June 2017). 36. Kroll, J.A.; Davey, I.C.; Felten, E.W. The economics of Bitcoin mining, or Bitcoin in the presence of adversaries. Proc. WEIS. 2013, 2013. 37. Eyal, I.; Gencer, A.E.; Sirer, E.G.; van Renesse, R. Bitcoin-ng: A scalable blockchain protocol. In Proceedings of the 13th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 16), Santa Clara, CA, USA, 2 February 2016. 38. Karame, G.O.; Elli, A.; Srdjan, C. Double-spending fast payments in bitcoin. In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Raleigh, CA, USA, 16­18 October 2012.
© 2017 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

