The Friends We Made Along the Way
The MITRE ATT&CK Edition
Toni Gidwani @t_gidwani

whoami
This talk represents the speaker's personal views and not the views of Google or Alphabet

MITRE ATT&CKTM is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations.

The purpose of intelligence is to drive a decision advantage

Can be automated Source: ENISA Threat Landscape Report 2018

The side that learns the fastest, wins
Developed for fighter pilots Useful framework for thinking about decision making Leveraging intelligence well shrinks your OODA loop

How do we know if it's working?

Measure of Performance Am I doing things right? What are we analyzing? Finding? Largely within the intel team's control

Measure of Effectiveness
Am I doing the right things?
Is intel actually changing my org's decisions or behavior?
Requires strong partnership with who intel enables (ops? IR? execs?)

This makes intel people uncomfortable

What holds us back from being more effective?
Intel drawn to novel, unique, next Ops needs stability of signal

Lives in the details Often retrospective Stronger on the diagnostic side

Works on a different, longer timeline than intel
Needs intel to be more prognostic

Enter ATT&CK

ATT&CK growing in popularity
Interest in MITRE ATT&CK as a search term between May 2015 - October 2019. Source: Google Trends

Value: Moving up from the tactical
Source: Pyramid of Pain by David Bianco

A common nomenclature enables a common operational picture

ATT&CK's Jedi Mind Trick

Improving detection and visibility
Be careful....it probably looks worse before it gets better

Planning and Mapping Requirements
Take executive's top-level intel requirements and map those attack types and what key systems are involved against ATT&CK

Presented by Francesco Bigarella at FIRST CTI Symposium 2019
https://www.first.org/resources/papers/london2019/Metrics-and-

Supporting your product evals

What are the gaps I need to close? Does this product do what it says it will?

Presented at ATT&CKcon 2018
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhsN5pBDrGY

"Plans are worthless, but planning is everything"
~ Dwight D. Eisenhower (maybe)

Sign me up!
I want to do all these amazing things with ATT&CK. Full steam ahead, right?

Complexity
266 Techniques in Enterprise ATT&CK Many teams find themselves extending further

Time
Done right, ATT&CK changes your inputs, processes, and outputs
Expect a solid 6 months-1 year of sustained effort when getting started

Will wider vendor adoption bend this curve?

Buy in
Who needs to commit for this to be successful? Focus on the why and the how and then the what becomes easier Manage expectations

Use the community!

Closing Thoughts

Thank you!

