SESSION ID: AIR-W12
Prosilience: Moving Beyond Resilience

Bobbie Stempfley
Managing Director CERT @bobbiestempfley

Summer Craze Fowler
Chief Security Officer Argo AI @sumfowler

#RSAC

#RSAC
Experience spans Industry, Academia, Government
Congress.gov

Argo.ai

Cmu.edu
2

#RSAC
What We Want You to Get Out of This Presentation

Lesson/Review on Resilience
Introduction to Proactive Resilience
Insight into Hybrid Threat Modeling Method
Action Plan to use immediately
New buzzword to impress your friends and family

https://www.johnogroat-journal.co.uk/News/Fantastic-crowd-wowed-by-90s-rockers-GUN-at-B-Fest-in-Wick-23082011.htm

3

#RSAC
Disruption and Resilience

smithsonianmag.com

An individual event is like a few grains of sand.
A flow of grains of sand, even over a short time, can cause a disruption.
A disruption can grow into a sandstorm of trouble.

To survive a sandstorm of trouble, an organization needs resilience.

4

Resilience

#RSAC
Enables ability for an organization or system to operate before, during, and after a disruptive event...
AND return to normal operating mode following any degradation
of capability
toys.com
5

#RSAC
CERT-RMM Defines Elements of Resilience
6

#RSAC
Resilience Management at a Practical Level
Each process area has a series of goals for organization to achieve along with examples Measures two dimensions of each process area
­ completeness ­ institutionalization
7

#RSAC
CERT-RMM Elements Correlate with other Frameworks

ISO 31000: 2009 BS25999-1:2006 CobiT 4.1 CMMI ­DEV v1.2 CMMI ­SVC v1.2 FFIEC BCP Handbook ISO 20000-2:2005(E) ISO 24762:2008(E) ISO 27002:2005 ISO 27005:2008 PCI DSS v1.2.1: 2009 NFPA 1600:2007
ANSI/ASIS SPC.1-2009

NIST SP 800-18 NIST SP 800-30 NIST SP 800-34 NIST SP 800-37 NIST SP 800-39 NIST SP 800-53 NIST SP 800-53A NIST SP 800-55 NIST SP 800-60 NIST SP 800-61 NIST SP 800-70 NIST SP 800-137

8

Resilience has Limits

#RSAC
Learns from prior experience but can be limited to that knowledge
­ Darktrace: ML identifies previously unknown zero-day and other exploits
Doesn't know what it doesn't know More reactive than proactive

Does your organization's resilience practice match the pace of potential disruption?
9

#RSAC
Prosilience is Possible

Resilience
+
Proactivity
=
Prosilience

Resilience is how you respond to challenges

A resilient organization can achieve its objectives despite a disruption

Prosilience is how you intentionally prepare to deal with them
­ Draws on psychology, neuroscience, physiology, and spirituality
A prosilient organization is resilient and prepares for and anticipates disruptions

Suggested reading

10

#RSAC
Prosilience takes Advantage of the Interconnected World

Function
Identify
Protect

Resilience
Today's, weather report indicates a chance of rain
Grab umbrella as you run out the door

Detect

Rain starts falling

Respond

https://blog.storagecraft.com/hurricane-checklist-data-protection/

Recover

Open umbrella, after sensing rain on head
Dry off

Prosilience
The month is April and daily rain average is 70%
In anticipation of rainy days, rain gear has been stored in car and office
Observe clouds; Alerts of humidity, barometer, and rain probability by phone
Open umbrella JUST BEFORE rain starts
Close umbrella, having been notified that rain threat ceased

Can we apply prosilience to cybersecurity?

11

Cybersecurity & Resilience Balance People, Processes, #RSAC Technology, and Culture

People

Culture

Process

Technology

Ensures completeness of practices in each area
Measures institutionalization of practice
Goal is survivability DESPITE disruption

Prosilience Wraps Cybersecurity Practice in Advanced #RSAC Analytics

Characteristics

· Predictive

People

· Adaptive

Goal is analytics to

· Evolutionary AVOID disruption

Culture

Process

Technology

Developed through · Scenario planning · Continuous exercises · Incorporating real-time and real-world
indicators

13

#RSAC
Meet Disruptions with New Science
Machine Learning
­ ML Concepts
Artificial Intelligence
­ AI Concepts
Becominghuman.ai
15

#RSAC
Application Example
16

Disruption and Prosilience
smithsonianmag.com

#RSAC
Can Machine Learning and AI help and organization predict each grain of sand in your organization? Do we even know WHAT or HOW to apply these concepts? AI and ML first require human intelligence and learning models

17

#RSAC
Baby Steps --> Prosilient Concepts in Resilience
Resilience:
­ Completeness of practices ­ Institutionalization of practices
Prosilience anticipates rather than reacts Let's start low-tech with our own neural network of threats
­ Identify and Prioritize, Assets, Connections, Actors, Vectors, and Vulnerabilities.
o "Where are the high-value assets?" o "Where am I most vulnerable to attack?" o "What are the most relevant threats?" o "Is there an attack vector that might go unnoticed?"
18

#RSAC
Hybrid Threat Modeling Method (hTMM)

Combines agility, repeatability, and threat model coverage needed for our overall systems architecture and operation process.

Combination of SQUARE, security cards, and Personae non Gratae (PnG) activities

Characteristics of hTMM
­ Intuitive and iterative process ­ No false positives ­ No overlooked threats

­ Consistent results regardless of who is doing the threat modeling
­ Cost-effective (doesn't waste time)
­ Empirical evidence to support its efficacy

19

#RSAC
hTMM Steps
1. Identify the system you will be threat modeling.
· Complete steps 1-3 of SQUARE threat model method
2. Apply Security Cards according to users' or developers' suggestions.
· Review dimensions and identify likelihood rankings
3. Prune PnGs that are unlikely or for which no realistic attack vectors could be identified.
4. Summarize results from the above steps, utilizing tool support. 5. Continue with a formal risk assessment method (FAIR).
20

1. What is SQUARE?
1. Agree on Project Definitions
­ Input: Candidate terminology and definitions compiled from expertise and knowledge of Argo systems, technologies and threats, compiled from public resources and stakeholder interviews.
­ Techniques: Stakeholders, requirements team in focus group, interviews ­ Output: Argo threat model lexicon
2. Identify Business Goals for the System, Assets and Threat Model
­ Input: Definitions, candidate goals, business drivers, policies and procedures, examples ­ Techniques: Stakeholders, engineers in work sessions, surveys, interviews ­ Output: Primary and prioritized supporting goals of the threat model project
3. Gather Artifacts
­ Input: Potential artifacts (e.g., diagrams, scenarios, mis/use cases, templates) ­ Participants: Stakeholders, engineers, requirements team ­ Output: Useful diagrams, scenarios, mis/use cases, models, and templates
21

#RSAC

#RSAC
2. Security Cards
Security Cards were developed at the University of Washington to help emphasize creativity and brainstorming over more structured approaches such as checklists. Security Cards develop a security mindset. The 4 Security Dimensions: Human Impact (9 Cards) Adversary's Motivations (13 Cards) Adversary's Resources (11 Cards) Adversary's Methods (9 Cards)
22

#RSAC
3. Prune Personae Non Gratae (PnGs)
Once data has been collected, prune PnGs that are unlikely or for which no realistic attack vectors could be identified. Itemize their misuse cases. This expands on HOW the adversary attacks the system. For the likely misuse cases provide the supporting detailed information on how the attack takes place.
23

#RSAC
4. hTMM Summary
Actor (PnG): Who or what instigates the attack? Purpose: What is the actor's goal or intent? Target: What asset is the target? Action: What action does the actor perform or attempt to perform?
­ Here you should consider both the resources and the skills of the actor. You will also be describing HOW the actor might attack your system and its expansion into misuse cases.
Result of the action: What happens as a result of the action? What assets are compromised? What goal has the actor achieved? Impact: What is the severity of the result (high, medium, or low) Threat type: (e.g., denial of service, spoofing)
24

#RSAC
4. What Does It Look Like?

PnG Purpose Target Marvin Revenge Garage
Susan Corporate LiDAR sabotage.
Bob Financial ADP

Jane

Curiosity

Corp Social Media

Action
Wifi Pineapple
Laser Pointer
Change Direct Deposit
Access and post

Result

Impacts

Sev Threat Type

Network Exploit, Financial Wellbeing Medium Insider Threat Denial of Service

Data Corruption Financial, Societal, High (Bad Data)

Sensor Attack

Integrity

Emotional, Financial

High Criminal

Inappropriate messages posted

Emotional, Financial

Medium Hacker

Identify the data you collect/establish the labels
25

5. Extra Credit ­ Monetize Impact
"Factor analysis of information risk (FAIR) is a taxonomy of the factors that contribute to risk and how they affect each other."
26

#RSAC
https://www.fairinstitute.org/about

#RSAC
What Can You Do
Start a conversation in your organization Identify most critical systems (resilience!) Gather stakeholders for 1 hour meeting on one system Follow hTMM steps and build profiles Work with teams to use these profiles to determine ways to address
­ Build the intelligence to ANTICIPATE the disruptions
Survey the data you collect and leverage the profiles for analytics Learn more here: https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/sei_blog/2018/04/the-hybrid-threat-modeling-
method.html
First steps in moving to Prosilience: modeling threats
27

#RSAC
How Does This Help You Today?
Current buzzwords surround us ­ especially this week! Determining which of the new, shiny AI tools will work requires you to start with resilience concepts Build for prosilience with threat modeling using hTMM Use this new neural network to assess AI/ML tools that will help

People

Culture

Process

http://thefreightdude.com/blog/tag/rsa-conference-2015/

28

Technology

Removed slides

