SESSION IDA:SD-T07
DevOps' Seven Deadly Diseases

John Willis
Founder Botchagalupe Technologies @botchagalupe

#RSAC

The Seven Deadly Disease's

What We Did

It's Where Human Capital Meets Technology

You can't Lean, Agile, SAFE or Devops your way around a bad
organizational culture.

Devops is about Humans
Devops is a set of practices and patterns that turn human
capital into high performance organizational capital.
7

The Seven Disease's
1. Invisible Work 2. Management System Toil 3. Tribal Knowledge 4. Misalignment of Incentives 5. Incongruent Organizational Design 6. Managing Complexity 7. Security and Compliance Theater

Solutions
1. Invisible Work - Capture All Work Visible
2. Management System Toil - Consolidate Work Management Systems 3. Tribal Knowledge - Theory of Constraints Methodology 4. Misalignment of Incentives - Graphical Story Telling 5. Incongruent Organizational Design - Inverse Conway Maneuver 6. Managing Complexity - Improvement Kata 7. Security and Compliance Theater - Edge to Audit

Organizational Forensics

Organizational Discovery at the Edge
Whenever we're talking about any kind of change or improvement you are counting on
a bunch of human beings to change and make this happen. If they haven't been part of figuring out how to do it, the change efforts
will be dead-on-arrival.

Investment Software

What We Did

#1 Measuring and Managing
Work (Make Work Visible)

Problems
 What Percentage of Work is Unknown?  Can Work be Accurately Classified?  Is There Complete Information?  Lack of E2E Understanding  Are there Workarounds and Hidden Work  Can't Analyze Bottlenecks (TOC)  Hard to Create Repeatability (Automation)

The Phoenix Project
I conclude, "So... For the Phoenix task, assuming we have seven handoffs, and that each of those resources is busy ninety percent of the time, the tasks would spend in queue a total of nine hours times the seven steps..."
"What? Sixty-three hours, just in queue time?" Wes says, incredulously. "That's impossible!"

Work Management Improvement Cycle

Adjust or Consolidate
Work Management to Make Work
Visible

Make Work Visible
Use Visibility to Improve System Behavior

System Behavior  Flow of Work  Handoffs  Batch Size  Work Process  Nature of Work*  Knowledge Sharing  Common Awareness

Overcoming Inefficiencies in Multiple Work Management Systems - IT Revolution Press

Countermeasures
 Make Work Visible  Work can be Accurately Classified  Better Understand Waste (5 Thieves)  Complete Information  Better E2E Understanding  Can Analyze Bottlenecks (TOC)  Can Create Repeatability (Automation)

#2 Multiple Work Management
(Reduce Sprawl)

Areas
 Ticketing Systems  Service Pipeline  Monitoring

Problems (Ticketing Systems)
 How Many Ticketing Systems?  Hard to Manage Work (Visibility)  Inconsistent Messaging  Non Existant Correlation  Low Accurately  Perpetuates Toil  Motivates Workarounds

Countermeasures

Requires Development
Based Methodology

Overcoming Inefficiencies in Multiple Work Management Systems - IT Revolution Press

#3 Institutional vs Tribal
Knowledge (Theory of Constraints)

Five Focusing Steps (TOC)
 Identify the constraint  Exploit the constraint  Subordinate all other activities to the
constraint  Elevate the constraint to new levels  Find the next constraint

Examples
 Slack  Chatbots  Chatops  Chat ML  Integrated Wiki

#4 Misalignment of Incentives

Graphical Storytelling
1 Map end-to-end process

2

Identify wastes, inefficiencies, bottlenecks

3 Identify countermeasures

Black Pen Red Pen Blue Pen

Graphical Storytelling (Day One)

#5 Incongruent Organizational
Design

Problems
 Taylorism and Conway  Silo'd Origination  Silo'd Teams  Redundancy  "I" vs "T" vs "E" Shaped  Knowledge Loss  Motivation/Apathy  Continued Perpetuation of Toil

Conway's Law
An adage named after computer programmer Melvin Conway, who introduced the idea in 1967. It states that. "organizations which design systems ... are constrained to produce designs which are copies of the communication structures of these organizations."

ORGANIZATIONAL ARCHETYPES
 Functional-Oriented  Optimize for expertise, division of labor, or reducing cost
 Matrix-Oriented  Combine functional and market orientation
 Market-Oriented  Optimize for responding quickly to customer needs
Dr. Roberto Fernandez

Build/Run Teams Service Owner Value Streams
The Service Owner is the single Transformational Leader accountable for the: end to end construction, operation, SLAs, customer experience and stewardship of business value for a product or set of services.
Scott Prugh CSG

#6 Managing Complexity (Understanding Complex Systems)

Dr Deming

#7 Security & Compliance
DevSecOps (Shift Left Auditors)
))

Problems (Shift Left Auditors)
 Review Boards (ARB, PRB,CAB)  Check Box Compliance  Workarounds and Hidden Work  Auditor Workarounds  Vulnerability Theater  Negative RIO  Policy Theater

Problems (Shift Left Auditors)
 Who's your adversary?  Cyber Team  Auditors  Adversaries (hackers)
 Adversary Interest is the edge case  Fallacy to build risk less code  Adversary Interest

DevSecOps Operational Tips
 Work with and educate your auditors  Ruthlessly eliminate false positives to Developers  Explain the vulnerabilities in business impact terms  Devops the vulnerability (JIRA, backlog, Kanban)  Open the code base to everyone in the organization  Educate on how to fix

Questions?

