Scenario 1 Turn by turn slides
These help the incident along. Change the master slides to fit your company brand or templates
Remember to delete this slide!

Cyber Incident
Gold team exercise March 05 (@RSAC) | 2:20 pm

1: An email is received

MONDAY | 1:00 pm

 An email was sent to our Finance Director at 09:00 a.m. this morning. The sender claims to have direct access to our systems and to have extracted hundreds of thousands of our Customer/3rd Party details including credit card data.
 They say that unless they receive a ransom of $500,000 paid in bitcoin ...
 Two deadlines:
 Respond with intention by 3pm today  Pay the money by 1pm tomorrow
 If we don't pay, data will be released to the public

1: An email is received

MONDAY | 1:00 pm

 We have 50 sample records from the attacker  IT says they "look credible"
I have direct access to your systems and have already taken hundreds of thousands of details including all your credit card data.
You need to pay me a ransom of $500,000 in bitcoin into 1AvAASEYstWetqTFn5Xu9m4GFg7xJgNVN2 by Tuesday 13:00 or I will put it all out there for all to see.
Contact me by 15.00 today confirming that address or I will tell all the media and everyone else that you have lost this data and lost all your systems. Here's some of your data to show you.

2: Half an hour before the deadline

MONDAY | 2:30 pm

 IT say they have found no evidence yet of external access onto our systems; they're continuing to perform checks and monitor networks.
 Good news: Credit Card data provided by the attacker in those 50 records does not match live data held for those customers or companies. It only looks plausible; it can't be used directly in fraud.
 Bad news: but the data does contain valid Customer IDs, Names, Addresses, Phone Numbers, Email Addresses. The Customer IDs are unique to us so it's definitely our data. Customers could be vulnerable to Social Engineering attacks if contacted by fraudsters who know of their relationship to us and have this data.

3: End of the day

MONDAY | 6:00 pm

 There has been no further contact from the attacker
 IT think it could be test data
 There's noise on Twitter
 Reuters has contacted public relations
 Have we lost data?  Have we lost Elon Musk's data?
 Twelve fraudulent payments have been found (and stopped) in the accounting system.
 Entered by a colleague who is on holiday

4: It is definitely test data

TUESDAY | 9:00 am

 No evidence of intrusion  Definitely system test data
 Found a file of 50K customers like the attacker's  BUT credit card data all randomized!  i.e. Credit card numbers definitely of no use to the attacker in direct fraud
 We (sadly) don't have Elon Musk as a customer  General media reporting of the data breach  Another email from the attacker
Don't mess me around! If I don't have the money by the deadline all the data will go to the media!!

5: The deadline for payment
 No further contact from the attacker  No further fraudulent payments  Media claim to have the file

TUESDAY | 1:00 pm

6: The attacker's gone quiet
 No attacker contact  Significant media reporting  Lots of social media comment  Requests for CEO interviews

TUESDDAY | 5:00 pm

Incident Wrap-up
Handout # 1.7

Questions
1. Response Planning Processes 2. Data 3. Communications 4. Ransom 5. Bitcoins 6. Overall

