SESSION ID: SPO2-W03
What Happens to Your Threat Model When Hardware Isn't Really Hardware?

Lorie Wigle
VP, Software and Services Group Intel Corporation
Twitter: @LWigle

#RSAC

#RSAC
Agenda
Security-sensitive organizations have a solid grasp software security update tradeoffs Hardware security isn't evaluated with same mindset Hardware refresh plans should be considered as part of the initial purchasing criteria and TCO
2

#RSAC

#RSAC
Balancing service vs security needs
Security sensitive organizations spend a lot of time evaluating risk tolerance when considering software
security update time-to-deploy.
4

When it comes to hardware, the analysis on refresh is generally based on total cost of ownership, availability of features, mechanical failure or anticipated life span.
Major security incidents are now pushing security considerations to the front-burner

#RSAC
Today's hardware upgrade calculations
Equipment failure Higher quality video feeds, storage upgrades, improved connectivity. Evolutions in functionality
6

#RSAC
Hardware doesn't exist in a vacuum

Integrated circuits Microcode BIOS, firmware BMCs Configuration management software

Software vulnerabilities need to be managed
Does it have a mature patching mechanism?
Does it contain anti-tampering mitigations?

7

#RSAC
Hardware risks are often overlooked
8

#RSAC
Is security built into your purchasing criteria?
When you buy new equipment...
­ Require a mature update mechanism ­ Consider minimum hardware-based security
functionality (e.g., secure storage, encryption support)
Factor security measures into your supply chain program
Other foundational security elements for your threat environment
9

Resilience and Mitigations

#RSAC
The technology industry is investing heavily in security. This work will provide resilience against potential future
threats. The work we do today is deployed along a longer timeline than that for software.

#RSAC
Innovations that move the needle
Certified Systems by Design BIOS/UEFI hardening, anti-tampering technologies Secure Storage and Trusted Platform Modules Secure Elements to store secrets, keys properly on the platform and prevent leakage Evolutions in cryptography Streamlining microcode updates to ecosystem

#RSAC
Collaborations that move the needle
Industry efforts
­ ARM & Intel for secure device onboarding ­ Industrial Internet Consortium ­ IETF and other SDOs
Public/private partnerships
­ NTIA work on patching ­ NIST efforts on firmware update standards,
sector-by-sector ­ TCG & NIST work on resilience

#RSAC
With long lifecycles in the field, this means the security work in your deployment may not enable your organization
to take advantage of recent security investments.

#RSAC
Security must be a factor in hardware refresh decisions
Security is part of TCO ­ including hardware
Align advances in security to your organizations needs
­ Priority of availability may exceed confidentiality and integrity
­ Your unique business requirements and risk assessment

