SESSION ID: TECH-R03
Protecting your Achilles' heel: managing security risk in your legacy product portfolio

Kyle Brunell
Connected Product Security Leader Ernst & Young LLP (EY) @kyle_brunell
The views expressed by the presenters are not necessarily those of Ernst & Young LLP or other members of the global EY organization.

#RSAC

#RSAC
First, a personal story about legacy products ...
2

#RSAC
What are the business drivers for better connectivity among products?

Consumer

Service

Industrial

Purpose

Maximize revenue Improve quality of life

Examples:

Minimize cost Increase asset utilization

Purpose

Smart homes, connected cars and wearables provide daily life convenience, efficiency and overall improve the customer experience

Health care, financial services and utilities provide real-time execution of transactions such as remote payments, prescription filing, health records management and metering
3

Manufacturing, oil and gas, and agriculture to achieve supply chain optimization, quality control, asset management, remote control and predictive maintenance

#RSAC
Why are we doing this talk?
How can I understand the risk of the legacy products I've developed, manufactured, sold and deployed? What are some security challenges with legacy products that we have released? What are some strategic and tactical methods to manage my risk? Product Manufacturer
4

#RSAC
What qualifies as a legacy product?

Legacy products were built with different expectations. These products are still in operation, but the expectations have changed

Yesterday's legacy products  Developed without current security threats in mind  Intended to operate in isolation  Expensive to replace  Not extensively tested for security  Difficult to update or upgrade  Contain rich data, but data is largely inaccessible  Minimal regulatory requirements  Lack of security solutions available

Today's environment  Increased sophistication of threat actors  Demand for expanded connectivity  Limited capital for improving old products  Enhanced security testing tools and techniques  Demand for new functionality  Greater need for data  Increased regulation and standards  Heightened customer expectations

5

#RSAC
Where's the risk?
The expanded attack surface:

Physical objects and devices

Gateway Network connectivity Cloud analytics and hosting Application and user interaction

6

#RSAC
Why is securing legacy products such a complicated problem?

Executive management

Protect our
brand

Engineering Cybersecurity

Know our portfolio

Integrate security into the business

Focus on new
products

Dedicate security resources

Be prepared
to respond

Manage our
liability

Manage product margins

Provide customer support

Differentiate from our
competitors

Be compliant

Charge for
support

Legal Marketing & sales
Internal audit

7

#RSAC
So what can be done to manage the risk of legacy products?

1 Involve stakeholders from across the enterprise
2 Understand your legacy product portfolio based on risk
3 Establish clear lines of communication with your customers

4 Uncover vulnerabilities through various testing approaches

5 Engage external researchers appropriately

6

Prepare for potential security incidents

8

Involve stakeholders from across the enterprise

Board of directors

Business unit

Executive management

Business unit

Business unit

Internal audit
Business unit

Cybersecurity

Engineering

Legal

Sales / Marketing

Legal
Sales and marketing

Product management
Business development

Engineering

Cybersecurity

Internal audit

Research and development

Manufacturing and supply chain
9

Customer support

#RSAC
Oversight and independent assurance (Board of directors and internal audit)
Third line of governance -- vision (Corporate operating committee)
Second line of governance -- validation (Steering committee)
First line of governance -- evaluation (Working group)

#RSAC
Understand your legacy product portfolio based on risk

STEP
1

Understand the risk of your products

 What is the current or anticipated production

volume?

 What is the intended functionality of the product?

 What type of data is stored or processed?

 What connectivity does the product support?

 What security controls have been implemented?

STEP Prioritize products based on their risk 3 to the organization
 What is the highest-risk product from a legal or reputational standpoint?
 Which products have the highest potential liability?

STEP Know where your products are 2 operating
 Which locations are the products operating in?
 Who owns them?  Who operates them?  What regulations apply?

STEP
4
10

Align security activities with the highest-risk products
 Are all of the contacts in place and do they understand their responsibilities?
 How do security activities scale based on the risk of the product?
 Have necessary security tests been conducted?

#RSAC
Establish clear lines of communication with your customers

With an increasingly sophisticated and security-aware customer base, the right customer support model is needed to communicate security in a timely and consistent manner

Business development

Onboarding and deployment

Product support

Program strategy and vision

Solution security brochure

Secure deployment support

Customer support model
Product security marketing collateral

Solution security controls
Secure deployment guidance

Solution support and update procedures
Incident and vulnerability communications

11

#RSAC
Uncover vulnerabilities through various testing approaches

Post-production product security framework

Governance

Product security risk assessment and prioritization

Vulnerability identification

Guidance for secure decommissioning

Production

Operation

Maintenance

End of life

Incident response

Patch

Security threat

management

reviews

Metrics and lessons learned for future product development

Component obsolescence planning

Key challenges
 Difficulty updating products  Challenges in prioritizing and funding resolution  Outdated third-party components  Lack of vendor support  Deficiency of testing resources

Critical success factors
 Leverage automation to the extent possible  Integrate into existing reporting and workflow tools  Scale testing activities based on the risk of the product  Continued vendor assessments  Monitor and manage security demand  Have a plan for different types of issues you may find

12

#RSAC
Engage external researchers appropriately

1

Understand your capacity to consume vulnerability reports from researchers

2 Create easy-to-use avenue for researchers to submit vulnerabilities

Actively address submissions and engage with researchers throughout the process

4

Consider monetary and/or non-monetary incentives for researchers

13

Prepare for potential security incidents

Define points of contact between legacy product owners and incident response team (IRT)

Establish channels to receive and escalate security events submitted through customer/dealer intake channels

Coordinate with legal counsel to evaluate contractual agreements

Establish and maintain appropriate relationships with internal and external stakeholders

#RSAC
Maintain criteria to effectively escalate security events to IRT and engage crossfunctional teams
Ensure that IRT has appropriate legacy product details

Summary

 Legacy product security requires a collaborative approach with engagement from all parts of the organization.
 Understanding what products you have and their relative risk is a must.  When used appropriately, external researchers can be essential to improving security.  Customer communication is paramount, especially in the absence of technical controls.  Security testing requirements and methods need to be well defined.  Be prepared for potential incidents.

Next week
 Identify stakeholders  Engage sales team to understand security
inquiries

Next 90 days

Next 180 days

 Identify and prioritize legacy products

 Develop a testing program

 Establish a method to submit vulnerabilities

 Conduct a tabletop for legacy products

#RSAC

#RSAC
Questions
Kyle Brunell
Connected Product Security Leader kyle.brunell@ey.com +1 312 879 2811
16

